1
2
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
3
Contents
 
About Rick Riordan
 
Books by Rick Riordan
 
Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief
 
Percy Jackson and the Sea of Monsters
 
Percy Jackson and the Titan’s Curse
 
Percy Jackson and the Battle of the Labyrinth
 
Percy Jackson and the Last Olympian
 
4
Rick Riordan is the creator of the award-winning, bestselling
Percy Jackson series and the thrilling Kane Chronicles series.
According to Rick, the idea for the Percy Jackson stories was
inspired by his son Haley. But rumour has it that Camp Half-
Blood actually exists, and Rick spends his summers there
recording the adventures of young demigods. Some believe
that, to avoid a mass panic among the mortal population, he
was forced to swear on the River Styx to present Percy
Jackson’s story as ﬁction. Rick lives in Boston (apart from his
summers on Half-Blood Hill) with his wife and two sons. To
learn more about him and the Percy Jackson and Kane
Chronicles series, visit: www.rickriordanmythmaster.co.uk
5
Books by Rick Riordan
 
The Percy Jackson series:
PERCY JACKSON AND THE LIGHTNING THIEF
PERCY JACKSON AND THE SEA OF MONSTERS
PERCY JACKSON AND THE TITAN’S CURSE
PERCY JACKSON AND THE BATTLE OF THE LABYRINTH
PERCY JACKSON AND THE LAST OLYMPIAN
PERCY JACKSON: THE DEMIGOD FILES
For more about Percy Jackson try:
PERCY JACKSON: THE ULTIMATE GUIDE
The Heroes of Olympus series:
THE LOST HERO
THE SON OF NEPTUNE
THE MARK OF ATHENA
HEROES OF OLYMPUS: THE DEMIGOD DIARIES
Don’t miss:
THE HOUSE OF HADES
The Kane Chronicles series:
THE RED PYRAMID
THE THRONE OF FIRE
THE SERPENT’S SHADOW
A Carter Kane/Percy Jackson Adventure ebook:
THE SON OF SOBEK
www.rickriordanmythmaster.co.uk
6
Praise for the Percy Jackson series:
 
‘A fantastic blend of myth and modern. Rick Riordan takes the reader back to
the stories we love, then shakes the cobwebs out of them’
– Eoin Colfer, author of Artemis Fowl
 
‘Funny . . . very exciting . . . but it’s the storytelling that will get readers hooked.
After all, this is the stuﬀ of legends’
– Guardian
 
‘Riordan delivers puns, jokes and subtle wit, alongside a gripping storyline’
– Sunday Telegraph
 
‘Witty and inspired. Gripping, touching and deliciously satirical’
– Amanda Craig, The Times
 
‘One of the books of the year … vastly entertaining’
– Independent
 
‘It’s Buﬀy meets Artemis Fowl. Thumbs up’
– Sunday Times
 
‘Sure to become a classic’
– Sunday Express
 
‘Funny, clever and exciting’
– The Times
 
‘Cool, mad and very funny!’
– Flipside
 
7
‘Unputdownable’
– Irish Times
 
8
9
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
10
Contents
 
1 • I Accidentally Vaporize My Maths Teacher
 
2 • Three Old Ladies Knit the Socks of Death
 
3 • Grover Unexpectedly Loses His Trousers
 
4 • My Mother Teaches Me Bullﬁghting
 
5 • I Play Pinochle with a Horse
 
6 • I Become Supreme Lord of the Bathroom
 
7 • My Dinner Goes Up in Smoke
 
8 • We Capture a Flag
 
9 • I Am Oﬀered a Quest
 
10 • I Ruin a Perfectly Good Bus
 
11 • We Visit the Garden Gnome Emporium
 
12 • We Get Advice from a Poodle
 
13 • I Plunge to My Death
 
14 • I Become a Known Fugitive
 
15 • A God Buys Us Cheeseburgers
 
16 • We Take a Zebra to Vegas
 
17 • We Shop for Waterbeds
 
18 • Annabeth Does Obedience School
11
 
19 • We Find Out the Truth, Sort Of
 
20 • I Battle My Jerk Relative
 
21 • I Settle My Tab
 
22 • The Prophecy Comes True
 
12
To Haley, who heard the story ﬁrst
13
1    I Accidentally Vaporize My Maths
Teacher
 
Look, I didn’t want to be a half-blood.
If you’re reading this because you think you might be one,
my advice is: close this book right now. Believe whatever lie
your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a
normal life.
Being a half-blood is dangerous. It’s scary. Most of the
time, it gets you killed in painful, nasty ways.
If you’re a normal kid, reading this because you think it’s
ﬁction, great. Read on. I envy you for being able to believe
that none of this ever happened.
But if you recognize yourself in these pages – if you feel
something stirring inside – stop reading immediately. You
might be one of us. And once you know that, it’s only a
matter of time before they sense it too, and they’ll come for
you.
Don’t say I didn’t warn you.
My name is Percy Jackson.
I’m twelve years old. Until a few months ago, I was a
boarding student at Yancy Academy, a private school for
troubled kids in upstate New York.
Am I a troubled kid?
Yeah. You could say that.
I could start at any point in my short miserable life to
prove it, but things really started going bad last May, when
our sixth-grade class took a ﬁeld trip to Manhattan – twenty-
14
eight mental-case kids and two teachers on a yellow school
bus, heading to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to look at
ancient Greek and Roman stuﬀ.
I know – it sounds like torture. Most Yancy ﬁeld trips were.
But Mr Brunner, our Latin teacher, was leading this trip, so
I had hopes.
Mr Brunner was this middle-aged guy in a motorized
wheelchair. He had thinning hair and a scruﬀy beard and a
frayed tweed jacket, which always smelled like coﬀee. You
wouldn’t think he’d be cool, but he told stories and jokes
and let us play games in class. He also had this awesome
collection of Roman armour and weapons, so he was the
only teacher whose class didn’t put me to sleep.
I hoped the trip would be okay. At least, I hoped that for
once I wouldn’t get in trouble.
Boy, was I wrong.
See, bad things happen to me on ﬁeld trips. Like at my
ﬁfth-grade school, when we went to the Saratoga battleﬁeld,
I had this accident with a Revolutionary War cannon. I
wasn’t aiming for the school bus, but of course I got
expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade
school, when we took a behind-the-scenes tour of the
Marine World shark pool, I sort of hit the wrong lever on the
catwalk and our class took an unplanned swim. And the
time before that… Well, you get the idea.
This trip, I was determined to be good.
All the way into the city, I put up with Nancy Boboﬁt, the
freckly red-headed kleptomaniac girl, hitting my best friend,
Grover, in the back of the head with chunks of peanut
butter-and-ketchup sandwich.
Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried
when he got frustrated. He must’ve been held back several
grades, because he was the only sixth grader with acne and
the start of a wispy beard on his chin. On top of all that, he
was crippled. He had a note excusing him from PE for the
rest of his life because he had some kind of muscular
15
disease in his legs. He walked funny, like every step hurt
him, but don’t let that fool you. You should’ve seen him run
when it was enchilada day in the cafeteria.
Anyway, Nancy Boboﬁt was throwing wads of sandwich
that stuck in his curly brown hair, and she knew I couldn’t
do anything back to her because I was already on probation.
The headmaster had threatened me with death-by-in-
school-suspension if anything bad, embarrassing, or even
mildly entertaining happened on this trip.
‘I’m going to kill her,’ I mumbled.
Grover tried to calm me down. ‘It’s okay. I like peanut
butter.’
He dodged another piece of Nancy’s lunch.
‘That’s it.’ I started to get up, but Grover pulled me back
to my seat.
‘You’re already on probation,’ he reminded me. ‘You know
who’ll get blamed if anything happens.’
Looking back on it, I wish I’d decked Nancy Boboﬁt right
then and there. In-school suspension would’ve been nothing
compared to the mess I was about to get myself into.
Mr Brunner led the museum tour.
He rode up front in his wheelchair, guiding us through the
big echoey galleries, past marble statues and glass cases
full of really old black-and-orange pottery.
It blew my mind that this stuﬀ had survived for two
thousand, three thousand years.
He gathered us around a four-metre-tall stone column with
a big sphinx on the top, and started telling us how it was a
grave marker, a stele, for a girl about our age. He told us
about the carvings on the sides. I was trying to listen to
what he had to say, because it was kind of interesting, but
everybody around me was talking, and every time I told
them to shut up, the other teacher chaperone, Mrs Dodds,
would give me the evil eye.
16
Mrs Dodds was this little maths teacher from Georgia who
always wore a black leather jacket, even though she was
ﬁfty years old. She looked mean enough to ride a Harley
right into your locker. She had come to Yancy halfway
through the year, when our last maths teacher had a
nervous breakdown.
From her ﬁrst day, Mrs Dodds loved Nancy Boboﬁt and
ﬁgured I was devil spawn. She would point her crooked
ﬁnger at me and say, ‘Now, honey,’ real sweet, and I knew I
was going to get after-school detention for a month.
One time, after she’d made me erase answers out of old
maths workbooks until midnight, I told Grover I didn’t think
Mrs Dodds was human. He looked at me real serious and
said, ‘You’re absolutely right.’
Mr Brunner kept talking about Greek funeral art.
Finally, Nancy Boboﬁt snickered something about the
naked guy on the stele, and I turned around and said, ‘Will
you shut up?’
It came out louder than I meant it to.
The whole group laughed. Mr Brunner stopped his story.
‘Mr Jackson,’ he said, ‘did you have a comment?’
My face was totally red. I said, ‘No, sir.’
Mr Brunner pointed to one of the pictures on the stele.
‘Perhaps you’ll tell us what this picture represents?’
I looked at the carving, and felt a ﬂush of relief, because I
actually recognized it. ‘That’s Kronos eating his kids, right?’
‘Yes,’ Mr Brunner said, obviously not satisﬁed. ‘And he did
this because…’
‘Well…’ I racked my brain to remember. ‘Kronos was the
king god, and –’
‘God?’ Mr Brunner asked.
‘Titan,’ I corrected myself. ‘And… he didn’t trust his kids,
who were the gods. So, um, Kronos ate them, right? But his
wife hid baby Zeus, and gave Kronos a rock to eat instead.
And later, when Zeus grew up, he tricked his dad, Kronos,
into barﬁng up his brothers and sisters –’
17
‘Eeew!’ said one of the girls behind me.
‘– and so there was this big ﬁght between the gods and
the Titans,’ I continued, ‘and the gods won.’
Some snickers from the group.
Behind me, Nancy Boboﬁt mumbled to a friend, ‘Like
we’re going to use this in real life. Like it’s going to say on
our job applications, “Please explain why Kronos ate his
kids”.’
‘And why, Mr Jackson,’ Brunner said, ‘to paraphrase Miss
Boboﬁt’s excellent question, does this matter in real life?’
‘Busted,’ Grover muttered.
‘Shut up,’ Nancy hissed, her face even brighter red than
her hair.
At least Nancy got in trouble, too. Mr Brunner was the only
one who ever caught her saying anything wrong. He had
radar ears.
I thought about his question, and shrugged. ‘I don’t know,
sir.’
‘I see.’ Mr Brunner looked disappointed. ‘Well, half credit,
Mr Jackson. Zeus did indeed feed Kronos a mixture of
mustard and wine, which made him disgorge his other ﬁve
children, who, of course, being immortal gods, had been
living and growing up completely undigested in the Titan’s
stomach. The gods defeated their father, sliced him to
pieces with his own scythe, and scattered his remains in
Tartarus, the darkest part of the Underworld. On that happy
note, it’s time for lunch. Mrs Dodds, would you lead us back
outside?’
The class drifted oﬀ, the girls holding their stomachs, the
guys pushing each other around and acting like doofuses.
Grover and I were about to follow when Mr Brunner said,
‘Mr Jackson.’
I knew that was coming.
I told Grover to keep going. Then I turned towards Mr
Brunner. ‘Sir?’
18
Mr Brunner had this look that wouldn’t let you go – intense
brown eyes that could’ve been a thousand years old and
had seen everything.
‘You must learn the answer to my question,’ Mr Brunner
told me.
‘About the Titans?’
‘About real life. And how your studies apply to it.’
‘Oh.’
‘What you learn from me,’ he said, ‘is vitally important. I
expect you to treat it as such. I will accept only the best
from you, Percy Jackson.’
I wanted to get angry, this guy pushed me so hard.
I mean, sure, it was kind of cool on tournament days,
when he dressed up in a suit of Roman armour and shouted:
‘What ho!’ and challenged us, sword-point against chalk, to
run to the board and name every Greek and Roman person
who had ever lived, and their mother, and what god they
worshipped. But Mr Brunner expected me to be as good as
everybody else, despite the fact I have dyslexia and
attention deﬁcit disorder and I had never made above a C-
in my life. No – he didn’t expect me to be as good; he
expected me to be better. And I just couldn’t learn all those
names and facts, much less spell them correctly.
I mumbled something about trying harder, while Mr
Brunner took one long sad look at the stele, like he’d been
at this girl’s funeral.
He told me to go outside and eat my lunch.
The class gathered on the front steps of the museum, where
we could watch the foot traﬃc along Fifth Avenue.
Overhead, a huge storm was brewing, with clouds blacker
than I’d ever seen over the city. I ﬁgured maybe it was
global warming or something, because the weather all
across New York state had been weird since Christmas. We’d
had massive snow storms, ﬂooding, wildﬁres from lightning
19
strikes. I wouldn’t have been surprised if this was a
hurricane blowing in.
Nobody else seemed to notice. Some of the guys were
pelting pigeons with Lunchables crackers. Nancy Boboﬁt
was trying to pickpocket something from a lady’s bag, and,
of course, Mrs Dodds wasn’t seeing a thing.
Grover and I sat on the edge of the fountain, away from
the others. We thought that maybe if we did that, everybody
wouldn’t know we were from that school – the school for
loser freaks who couldn’t make it elsewhere.
‘Detention?’ Grover asked.
‘Nah,’ I said. ‘Not from Brunner. I just wish he’d lay oﬀ me
sometimes. I mean – I’m not a genius.’
Grover didn’t say anything for a while. Then, when I
thought he was going to give me some deep philosophical
comment to make me feel better, he said, ‘Can I have your
apple?’
I didn’t have much of an appetite, so I let him take it.
I watched the stream of cabs going down Fifth Avenue,
and thought about my mom’s apartment, only a little ways
uptown from where we sat. I hadn’t seen her since
Christmas. I wanted so bad to jump in a taxi and head
home. She’d hug me and be glad to see me, but she’d be
disappointed, too. She’d send me right back to Yancy,
remind me that I had to try harder, even if this was my sixth
school in six years and I was probably going to be kicked out
again. I wouldn’t be able to stand that sad look she’d give
me.
Mr Brunner parked his wheelchair at the base of the
handicapped ramp. He ate celery while he read a paperback
novel. A red umbrella stuck up from the back of his chair,
making it look like a motorized café table.
I was about to unwrap my sandwich when Nancy Boboﬁt
appeared in front of me with her ugly friends – I guess she’d
gotten tired of stealing from the tourists – and dumped her
half-eaten lunch in Grover’s lap.
20
‘Oops.’ She grinned at me with her crooked teeth. Her
freckles were orange, as if somebody had spray-painted her
face with liquid Cheetos.
I tried to stay cool. The school counsellor had told me a
million times, ‘Count to ten, get control of your temper.’ But
I was so mad my mind went blank. A wave roared in my
ears.
I don’t remember touching her, but the next thing I knew,
Nancy was sitting on her butt in the fountain, screaming,
‘Percy pushed me!’
Mrs Dodds materialized next to us.
Some of the kids were whispering: ‘Did you see –’
‘– the water –’
‘– like it grabbed her –’
I didn’t know what they were talking about. All I knew was
that I was in trouble again.
As soon as Mrs Dodds was sure poor little Nancy was
okay, promising to get her a new shirt at the museum gift
shop, etc., etc., Mrs Dodds turned on me. There was a
triumphant ﬁre in her eyes, as if I’d done something she’d
been waiting for all semester. ‘Now, honey –’
‘I know,’ I grumbled. ‘A month erasing textbooks.’
That wasn’t the right thing to say.
‘Come with me,’ Mrs Dodds said.
‘Wait!’ Grover yelped. ‘It was me. I pushed her.’
I stared at him, stunned. I couldn’t believe he was trying
to cover for me. Mrs Dodds scared Grover to death.
She glared at him so hard his whiskery chin trembled.
‘I don’t think so, Mr Underwood,’ she said.
‘But –’
‘You – will– stay – here.’
Grover looked at me desperately.
‘It’s okay, man,’ I told him. ‘Thanks for trying.’
‘Honey,’ Mrs Dodds barked at me. ‘Now.’
Nancy Boboﬁt smirked.
21
I gave her my deluxe I’ll-kill-you-later stare. I then turned
to face Mrs Dodds, but she wasn’t there. She was standing
at the museum entrance, way at the top of the steps,
gesturing impatiently at me to come on.
How’d she get there so fast?
I have moments like that a lot, when my brain falls asleep
or something, and the next thing I know I’ve missed
something, as if a puzzle piece fell out of the universe and
left me staring at the blank place behind it. The school
counsellor told me this was part of the ADHD, my brain
misinterpreting things.
I wasn’t so sure.
I went after Mrs Dodds.
Halfway up the steps, I glanced back at Grover. He was
looking pale, cutting his eyes between me and Mr Brunner,
like he wanted Mr Brunner to notice what was going on, but
Mr Brunner was absorbed in his novel.
I looked back up. Mrs Dodds had disappeared again. She
was now inside the building, at the end of the entrance hall.
Okay, I thought. She’s going to make me buy a new shirt
for Nancy at the gift shop.
But apparently that wasn’t the plan.
I followed her deeper into the museum. When I ﬁnally
caught up to her, we were back in the Greek and Roman
section.
Except for us, the gallery was empty.
Mrs Dodds stood with her arms crossed in front of a big
marble frieze of the Greek gods. She was making this weird
noise in her throat, like growling.
Even without the noise, I would’ve been nervous. It’s
weird being alone with a teacher, especially Mrs Dodds.
Something about the way she looked at the frieze, as if she
wanted to pulverize it…
‘You’ve been giving us problems, honey,’ she said.
I did the safe thing. I said, ‘Yes, ma’am.’
22
She tugged on the cuﬀs of her leather jacket. ‘Did you
really think you would get away with it?’
The look in her eyes was beyond mad. It was evil.
She’s a teacher, I thought nervously. It’s not like she’s
going to hurt me.
I said, ‘I’ll – I’ll try harder, ma’am.’
Thunder shook the building.
‘We are not fools, Percy Jackson,’ Mrs Dodds said. ‘It was
only a matter of time before we found you out. Confess, and
you will suﬀer less pain.’
I didn’t know what she was talking about.
All I could think of was that the teachers must’ve found
the illegal stash of candy I’d been selling out of my dorm
room. Or maybe they’d realized I got my essay on Tom
Sawyer from the Internet without ever reading the book and
now they were going to take away my grade. Or worse, they
were going to make me read the book.
‘Well?’ she demanded.
‘Ma’am, I don’t…’
‘Your time is up,’ she hissed. Then the weirdest thing
happened. Her eyes began to glow like barbecue coals. Her
ﬁngers stretched, turning into talons. Her jacket melted into
large, leathery wings. She wasn’t human. She was a
shrivelled hag with bat wings and claws and a mouth full of
yellow fangs, and she was about to slice me to ribbons.
Then things got even stranger.
Mr Brunner, who’d been out in front of the museum a
minute before, wheeled his chair into the doorway of the
gallery, holding a pen in his hand.
‘What ho, Percy!’ he shouted, and tossed the pen through
the air.
Mrs Dodds lunged at me.
With a yelp, I dodged and felt talons slash the air next to
my ear. I snatched the ballpoint pen out of the air, but when
it hit my hand, it wasn’t a pen any more. It was a sword – Mr
23
Brunner’s bronze sword, which he always used on
tournament day.
Mrs Dodds spun towards me with a murderous look in her
eyes.
My knees were jelly. My hands were shaking so bad I
almost dropped the sword.
She snarled, ‘Die, honey!’
And she ﬂew straight at me.
Absolute terror ran through my body. I did the only thing
that came naturally: I swung the sword.
The metal blade hit her shoulder and passed clean
through her body as if she were made of water. Hisss!
Mrs Dodds was a sand castle in a power fan. She exploded
into yellow powder, vaporized on the spot, leaving nothing
but the smell of sulphur and a dying screech and a chill of
evil in the air, as if those two glowing red eyes were still
watching me.
I was alone.
There was a ballpoint pen in my hand.
Mr Brunner wasn’t there. Nobody was there but me.
My hands were still trembling. My lunch must’ve been
contaminated with magic mushrooms or something.
Had I imagined the whole thing?
I went back outside.
It had started to rain.
Grover was sitting by the fountain, a museum map tented
over his head. Nancy Boboﬁt was still standing there,
soaked from her swim in the fountain, grumbling to her ugly
friends. When she saw me, she said, ‘I hope Mrs Kerr
whipped your butt.’
I said, ‘Who?’
‘Our teacher. Duh!’
I blinked. We had no teacher named Mrs Kerr. I asked
Nancy what she was talking about.
She just rolled her eyes and turned away.
I asked Grover where Mrs Dodds was.
24
He said, ‘Who?’
But he paused ﬁrst, and he wouldn’t look at me, so I
thought he was messing with me.
‘Not funny, man,’ I told him. ‘This is serious.’
Thunder boomed overhead.
I saw Mr Brunner sitting under his red umbrella, reading
his book, as if he’d never moved.
I went over to him.
He looked up, a little distracted. ‘Ah, that would be my
pen. Please bring your own writing utensil in the future, Mr
Jackson.’
I handed it over. I hadn’t even realized I was still holding
it.
‘Sir,’ I said, ‘where’s Mrs Dodds?’
He stared at me blankly. ‘Who?’
‘The other chaperone. Mrs Dodds. The maths teacher.’
He frowned and sat forward, looking mildly concerned.
‘Percy, there is no Mrs Dodds on this trip. As far as I know,
there has never been a Mrs Dodds at Yancy Academy. Are
you feeling all right?’
25
2    Three Old Ladies Knit the Socks of
Death
 
I was used to the occasional weird experience, but usually
they were over quickly. This twenty-four/seven hallucination
was more than I could handle. For the rest of the school
year, the entire campus seemed to be playing some kind of
trick on me. The students acted as if they were completely
and totally convinced that Mrs Kerr – a perky blonde woman
whom I’d never seen in my life until she got on our bus at
the end of the ﬁeld trip – had been our maths teacher since
Christmas.
Every so often I would spring a Mrs Dodds reference on
somebody, just to see if I could trip them up, but they would
stare at me like I was psycho.
It got so I almost believed them – Mrs Dodds had never
existed.
Almost.
But Grover couldn’t fool me. When I mentioned the name
Dodds to him, he would hesitate, then claim she didn’t exist.
But I knew he was lying.
Something was going on. Something had happened at the
museum.
I didn’t have much time to think about it during the days,
but at night, visions of Mrs Dodds with talons and leathery
wings would wake me up in a cold sweat.
The freak weather continued, which didn’t help my mood.
One night, a thunderstorm blew out the windows in my
dorm room. A few days later, the biggest tornado ever
26
spotted in the Hudson Valley touched down only ﬁfty miles
from Yancy Academy. One of the current events we studied
in social studies class was the unusual number of small
planes that had gone down in sudden squalls in the Atlantic
that year.
I started feeling cranky and irritable most of the time. My
grades slipped from Ds to Fs. I got into more ﬁghts with
Nancy Boboﬁt and her friends. I was sent out into the
hallway in almost every class.
Finally, when our English teacher, Mr Nicoll, asked me for
the millionth time why I was too lazy to study for spelling
tests, I snapped. I called him an old sot. I wasn’t even sure
what it meant, but it sounded good.
The headmaster sent my mom a letter the following week,
making it oﬃcial: I would not be invited back next year to
Yancy Academy.
Fine, I told myself. Just ﬁne.
I was homesick.
I wanted to be with my mom in our little apartment on the
Upper East Side, even if I had to go to public school and put
up with my obnoxious stepfather and his stupid poker
parties.
And yet… there were things I’d miss at Yancy. The view of
the woods out my dorm window, the Hudson River in the
distance, the smell of pine trees. I’d miss Grover, who’d
been a good friend, even if he was a little strange. I worried
how he’d survive next year without me.
I’d miss Latin class, too – Mr Brunner’s crazy tournament
days and his faith that I could do well.
As exam week got closer, Latin was the only test I studied
for. I hadn’t forgotten what Mr Brunner had told me about
this subject being life-and-death for me. I wasn’t sure why,
but I’d started to believe him.
The evening before my ﬁnal, I got so frustrated I threw the
Cambridge Guide to Greek Mythology across my dorm room.
27
Words had started swimming oﬀ the page, circling my head,
the letters doing one-eighties as if they were riding
skateboards. There was no way I was going to remember
the diﬀerence between Chiron and Charon, or Polydictes and
Polydeuces. And conjugating those Latin verbs? Forget it.
I paced the room, feeling like ants were crawling around
inside my shirt.
I remembered Mr Brunner’s serious expression, his
thousand-year-old eyes. I will accept only the best from you,
Percy Jackson.
I took a deep breath. I picked up the mythology book.
I’d never asked a teacher for help before. Maybe if I talked
to Mr Brunner, he could give me some pointers. At least I
could apologize for the big fat ‘F’ I was about to score on his
exam. I didn’t want to leave Yancy Academy with him
thinking I hadn’t tried.
I walked downstairs to the faculty oﬃces. Most of them
were dark and empty, but Mr Brunner’s door was ajar, light
from his window stretching across the hallway ﬂoor.
I was three steps from the door handle when I heard
voices inside the oﬃce. Mr Brunner asked a question. A
voice that was deﬁnitely Grover’s said, ‘… worried about
Percy, sir.’
I froze.
I’m not usually an eavesdropper, but I dare you to try not
listening if you hear your best friend talking about you to an
adult.
I inched closer.
‘… alone this summer,’ Grover was saying. ‘I mean, a
Kindly One in the school! Now that we know for sure, and
they know too –’
‘We would only make matters worse by rushing him,’ Mr
Brunner said. ‘We need the boy to mature more.’
‘But he may not have time. The summer solstice deadline
–’
28
‘Will have to be resolved without him, Grover. Let him
enjoy his ignorance while he still can.’
‘Sir, he saw her…’
‘His imagination,’ Mr Brunner insisted. ‘The Mist over the
students and staﬀ will be enough to convince him of that.’
‘Sir, I… I can’t fail in my duties again.’ Grover’s voice was
choked with emotion. ‘You know what that would mean.’
‘You haven’t failed, Grover,’ Mr Brunner said kindly. ‘I
should have seen her for what she was. Now let’s just worry
about keeping Percy alive until next autumn –’
The mythology book dropped out of my hand and hit the
ﬂoor with a thud.
Mr Brunner went silent.
My heart hammering, I picked up the book and backed
down the hall.
A shadow slid across the lighted glass of Brunner’s oﬃce
door, the shadow of something much taller than my
wheelchair-bound teacher, holding something that looked
suspiciously like an archer’s bow.
I opened the nearest door and slipped inside.
A few seconds later I heard a slow clop-clop-clop, like
muﬄed wood blocks, then a sound like an animal snuﬄing
right outside my door. A large dark shape paused in front of
the glass, then moved on.
A bead of sweat trickled down my neck.
Somewhere in the hallway, Mr Brunner spoke. ‘Nothing,’
he murmured. ‘My nerves haven’t been right since the
winter solstice.’
‘Mine neither,’ Grover said. ‘But I could have sworn…’
‘Go back to the dorm,’ Mr Brunner told him. ‘You’ve got a
long day of exams tomorrow.’
‘Don’t remind me.’
The lights went out in Mr Brunner’s oﬃce.
I waited in the dark for what seemed like forever.
Finally, I slipped out into the hallway and made my way
back up to the dorm.
29
Grover was lying on his bed, studying his Latin exam
notes like he’d been there all night.
‘Hey,’ he said, bleary-eyed. ‘You going to be ready for this
test?’
I didn’t answer.
‘You look awful.’ He frowned. ‘Is everything okay?’
‘Just… tired.’
I turned so he couldn’t read my expression, and started
getting ready for bed.
I didn’t understand what I’d heard downstairs. I wanted to
believe I’d imagined the whole thing.
But one thing was clear: Grover and Mr Brunner were
talking about me behind my back. They thought I was in
some kind of danger.
The next afternoon, as I was leaving the three-hour Latin
exam, my eyes swimming with all the Greek and Roman
names I’d misspelled, Mr Brunner called me back inside.
For a moment, I was worried he’d found out about my
eavesdropping the night before, but that didn’t seem to be
the problem.
‘Percy,’ he said. ‘Don’t be discouraged about leaving
Yancy. It’s… it’s for the best.’
His tone was kind, but the words still embarrassed me.
Even though he was speaking quietly, the other kids
ﬁnishing the test could hear. Nancy Boboﬁt smirked at me
and made sarcastic little kissing motions with her lips.
I mumbled, ‘Okay, sir.’
‘I mean…’ Mr Brunner wheeled his chair back and forth,
like he wasn’t sure what to say. ‘This isn’t the right place for
you. It was only a matter of time.’
My eyes stung.
Here was my favourite teacher, in front of the class, telling
me I couldn’t handle it. After saying he believed in me all
year, now he was telling me I was destined to get kicked
out.
30
‘Right,’ I said, trembling.
‘No, no,’ Mr Brunner said. ‘Oh, confound it all. What I’m
trying to say… you’re not normal, Percy. That’s nothing to be
–’
‘Thanks,’ I blurted. ‘Thanks a lot, sir, for reminding me.’
‘Percy –’
But I was already gone.
On the last day of the term, I shoved my clothes into my
suitcase.
The other guys were joking around, talking about their
vacation plans. One of them was going on a hiking trip to
Switzerland. Another was cruising the Caribbean for a
month. They were juvenile delinquents, like me, but they
were 
rich 
juvenile 
delinquents. 
Their 
daddies 
were
executives, or ambassadors, or celebrities. I was a nobody,
from a family of nobodies.
They asked me what I’d be doing this summer and I told
them I was going back to the city.
What I didn’t tell them was that I’d have to get a summer
job walking dogs or selling magazine subscriptions, and
spend my free time worrying about where I’d go to school in
the autumn.
‘Oh,’ one of the guys said. ‘That’s cool.’
They went back to their conversation as if I’d never
existed.
The only person I dreaded saying goodbye to was Grover
but, as it turned out, I didn’t have to. He’d booked a ticket to
Manhattan on the same Greyhound as I had, so there we
were, together again, heading into the city.
During the whole bus ride, Grover kept glancing nervously
down the aisle, watching the other passengers. It occurred
to me that he’d always acted nervous and ﬁdgety when we
left Yancy, as if he expected something bad to happen.
Before, I’d always assumed he was worried about getting
31
teased. But there was nobody to tease him on the
Greyhound.
Finally I couldn’t stand it any more.
I said, ‘Looking for Kindly Ones?’
Grover nearly jumped out of his seat. ‘Wha – what do you
mean?’
I confessed about eavesdropping on him and Mr Brunner
the night before the exam.
Grover’s eye twitched. ‘How much did you hear?’
‘Oh… not much. What’s the summer-solstice deadline?’
He winced. ‘Look, Percy… I was just worried for you, see? I
mean, hallucinating about demon maths teachers…’
‘Grover –’
‘And I was telling Mr Brunner that maybe you were
overstressed or something, because there was no such
person as Mrs Dodds, and…’
‘Grover, you’re a really, really bad liar.’
His ears turned pink.
From his shirt pocket, he ﬁshed out a grubby business
card. ‘Just take this, okay? In case you need me this
summer.’
The card was in fancy script, which was murder on my
dyslexic eyes, but I ﬁnally made out something like:
Grover Underwood, Keeper
Half-Blood Hill
Long Island, New York
(800)009-0009
 
‘What’s Half –’
‘Don’t say it aloud!’ he yelped. ‘That’s my, um… summer
address.’
My heart sank. Grover had a summer home. I’d never
considered that his family might be as rich as the others at
Yancy.
32
‘Okay,’ I said glumly. ‘So, like, if I want to come visit your
mansion.’
He nodded. ‘Or… or if you need me.’
‘Why would I need you?’
It came out harsher than I meant it too.
Grover blushed right down to his Adam’s apple. ‘Look,
Percy, the truth is, I – I kind of have to protect you.’
I stared at him.
All year long, I’d gotten in ﬁghts keeping bullies away from
him. I’d lost sleep worrying that he’d get beaten up next
year without me. And here he was acting like he was the
one who defended me.
‘Grover,’ I said, ‘what exactly are you protecting me
from?’
There was a huge grinding noise under our feet. Black
smoke poured from the dashboard and the whole bus ﬁlled
with a smell like rotten eggs. The driver cursed and limped
the Greyhound over to the side of the highway.
After a few minutes clanking around in the engine
compartment, the driver announced that we’d all have to
get oﬀ. Grover and I ﬁled outside with everybody else.
We were on a stretch of country road – no place you’d
notice if you didn’t break down there. On our side of the
highway was nothing but maple trees and litter from
passing cars. On the other side, across four lanes of asphalt
shimmering with afternoon heat, was an old-fashioned fruit
stand.
The stuﬀ on sale looked really good: heaping boxes of
blood-red cherries and apples, walnuts and apricots, jugs of
cider in a claw-foot tub full of ice. There were no customers,
just three old ladies sitting in rocking chairs in the shade of
a maple tree, knitting the biggest pair of socks I’d ever
seen.
I mean these socks were the size of sweaters, but they
were clearly socks. The lady on the right knitted one of
33
them. The lady on the left knitted the other. The lady in the
middle held an enormous basket of electric-blue yarn.
All three women looked ancient, with pale faces wrinkled
like fruit leather, silver hair tied back in white bandannas,
bony arms sticking out of bleached cotton dresses.
The weirdest thing was, they seemed to be looking right
at me.
I looked over at Grover to say something about this and
saw that the blood had drained from his face. His nose was
twitching.
‘Grover?’ I said. ‘Hey, man –’
‘Tell me they’re not looking at you. They are. Aren’t they?’
‘Yeah. Weird, huh? You think those socks would ﬁt me?’
‘Not funny, Percy. Not funny at all.’
The old lady in the middle took out a huge pair of scissors
– gold and silver, long-bladed, like shears. I heard Grover
catch his breath.
‘We’re getting on the bus,’ he told me. ‘Come on.’
‘What?’ I said. ‘It’s a thousand degrees in there.’
‘Come on!’ He prised open the door and climbed inside,
but I stayed back.
Across the road, the old ladies were still watching me. The
middle one cut the yarn, and I swear I could hear that snip
across four lanes of traﬃc. Her two friends balled up the
electric-blue socks, leaving me wondering who they could
possibly be for – Sasquatch or Godzilla.
At the rear of the bus, the driver wrenched a big chunk of
smoking metal out of the engine compartment. The bus
shuddered, and the engine roared back to life.
The passengers cheered.
‘Darn right!’ yelled the driver. He slapped the bus with his
hat. ‘Everybody back on board!’
Once we got going. I started feeling feverish, as if I’d
caught the ﬂu.
Grover didn’t look much better. He was shivering and his
teeth were chattering.
34
‘Grover?’
‘Yeah?’
‘What are you not telling me?’
He dabbed his forehead with his shirt sleeve. ‘Percy, what
did you see back at the fruit stand?’
‘You mean the old ladies? What is it about them, man?
They’re not like… Mrs Dodds, are they?’
His expression was hard to read, but I got the feeling that
the fruit-stand ladies were something much, much worse
than Mrs Dodds. He said, ‘Just tell me what you saw.’
‘The middle one took out her scissors, and she cut the
yarn.’
He closed his eyes and made a gesture with his ﬁngers
that might’ve been crossing himself, but it wasn’t. It was
something else, something almost – older.
He said, ‘You saw her snip the cord.’
‘Yeah. So?’ But even as I said it, I knew it was a big deal.
‘This is not happening,’ Grover mumbled. He started
chewing at his thumb. ‘I don’t want this to be like the last
time.’
‘What last time?’
‘Always sixth grade. They never get past sixth.’
‘Grover,’ I said, because he was really starting to scare
me. ‘What are you talking about?’
‘Let me walk you home from the bus station. Promise me.’
This seemed like a strange request to me, but I promised
he could.
‘Is this like a superstition or something?’ I asked.
No answer.
‘Grover – that snipping of the yarn. Does that mean
somebody is going to die?’
He looked at me mournfully, like he was already picking
the kind of ﬂowers I’d like best on my coﬃn.
35
3    Grover Unexpectedly Loses His
Trousers
 
Confession time: I ditched Grover as soon as we got to the
bus terminal.
I know, I know. It was rude. But Grover was freaking me
out, looking at me like I was a dead man, muttering, ‘Why
does this always happen?’ and, ‘Why does it always have to
be sixth grade?’
Whenever he got upset, Grover’s bladder acted up, so I
wasn’t surprised when, as soon as we got oﬀ the bus, he
made me promise to wait for him, then made a beeline for
the restroom. Instead of waiting, I got my suitcase, slipped
outside, and caught the ﬁrst taxi uptown.
‘East One Hundred and Fourth and First Avenue,’ I told the
driver.
A word about my mother, before you meet her.
Her name is Sally Jackson and she’s the best person in the
world, which just proves my theory that the best people
have the rottenest luck. Her own parents died in a plane
crash when she was ﬁve, and she was raised by an uncle
who didn’t care much about her. She wanted to be a
novelist, so she spent high school working to save enough
money 
for 
a 
college 
with 
a 
good 
creative-writing
programme. Then her uncle got cancer, and she had to quit
school in her senior year to take care of him. After he died,
she was left with no money, no family and no diploma.
The only good break she ever got was meeting my dad.
36
I don’t have any memories of him, just this sort of warm
glow, maybe the barest trace of his smile. My mom doesn’t
like to talk about him because it makes her sad. She has no
pictures.
See, they weren’t married. She told me he was rich and
important, and their relationship was a secret. Then one
day, he set sail across the Atlantic on some important
journey, and he never came back.
Lost at sea, my mom told me. Not dead. Lost at sea.
She worked odd jobs, took night classes to get her high
school diploma, and raised me on her own. She never
complained or got mad. Not even once. But I knew I wasn’t
an easy kid.
Finally, she married Gabe Ugliano, who was nice the ﬁrst
thirty seconds we knew him, then showed his true colours
as a world-class jerk. When I was young, I nicknamed him
Smelly Gabe. I’m sorry, but it’s the truth. The guy reeked
like mouldy garlic pizza wrapped in gym shorts.
Between the two of us, we made my mom’s life pretty
hard. The way Smelly Gabe treated her, the way he and I
got along… well, when I came home is a good example.
I walked into our little apartment, hoping my mom would be
home from work. Instead, Smelly Gabe was in the living
room, playing poker with his buddies. The television was
blaring. Crisps and beer cans were strewn all over the
carpet.
Hardly looking up, he said around his cigar, ‘So, you’re
home.’
‘Where’s my mom?’
‘Working,’ he said. ‘You got any cash?’
That was it. No Welcome back. Good to see you. How has
your life been the last six months?
Gabe had put on weight. He looked like a tuskless walrus
in thrift-store clothes. He had about three hairs on his head,
37
all combed over his bald scalp, as if that made him
handsome or something.
He managed the Electronics Mega-Mart in Queens, but he
stayed home most of the time. I don’t know why he hadn’t
been ﬁred long before. He just kept on collecting pay
cheques, spending the money on cigars that made me
nauseous, and on beer, of course. Always beer. Whenever I
was home, he expected me to provide his gambling funds.
He called that our ‘guy secret’. Meaning, if I told my mom,
he would punch my lights out.
‘I don’t have any cash,’ I told him.
He raised a greasy eyebrow.
Gabe could sniﬀ out money like a bloodhound, which was
surprising, since his own smell should’ve covered up
everything else.
‘You took a taxi from the bus station,’ he said. ‘Probably
paid with a twenty. Got six, seven bucks in change.
Somebody expects to live under this roof, he ought to carry
his own weight. Am I right, Eddie?’
Eddie, the superintendant of the apartment building,
looked at me with a twinge of sympathy. ‘Come on, Gabe,’
he said. ‘The kid just got here.’
‘Am I right?’ Gabe repeated.
Eddie scowled into his bowl of pretzels. The other two
guys passed gas in harmony.
‘Fine,’ I said. I dug a wad of dollars out of my pocket and
threw the money on the table. ‘I hope you lose.’
‘Your report card came, brain boy!’ he shouted after me. ‘I
wouldn’t act so snooty!’
I slammed the door to my room, which really wasn’t my
room. During school months, it was Gabe’s ‘study’. He didn’t
study anything in there except old car magazines, but he
loved shoving my stuﬀ in the closet, leaving his muddy
boots on my windowsill, and doing his best to make the
place smell like his nasty cologne and cigars and stale beer.
I dropped my suitcase on the bed. Home sweet home.
38
Gabe’s smell was almost worse than the nightmares about
Mrs Dodds, or the sound of that old fruit lady’s shears
snipping the yarn.
But as soon as I thought that, my legs felt weak. I
remembered Grover’s look of panic – how he’d made me
promise I wouldn’t go home without him. A sudden chill
rolled through me. I felt like someone – something – was
looking for me right now, maybe pounding its way up the
stairs, growing long, horrible talons.
Then I heard my mom’s voice. ‘Percy?’
She opened the bedroom door, and my fears melted.
My mother can make me feel good just by walking into the
room. Her eyes sparkle and change colour in the light. Her
smile is as warm as a quilt. She’s got a few grey streaks
mixed in with her long brown hair, but I never think of her as
old. When she looks at me, it’s like she’s seeing all the good
things about me, none of the bad. I’ve never heard her raise
her voice or say an unkind word to anyone, not even me or
Gabe.
‘Oh, Percy.’ She hugged me tight. ‘I can’t believe it. You’ve
grown since Christmas!’
Her red-white-and-blue Sweet on America uniform smelled
like the best things in the world: chocolate, licorice, and all
the other stuﬀ she sold at the candy shop in Grand Central.
She’d brought me a huge bag of ‘free samples’, the way she
always did when I came home.
We sat together on the edge of the bed. While I attacked
the blueberry sour strings, she ran her hand through my
hair and demanded to know everything I hadn’t put in my
letters. She didn’t mention anything about my getting
expelled. She didn’t seem to care about that. But was I
okay? Was her little boy doing all right?
I told her she was smothering me, and to lay oﬀ and all
that, but secretly, I was really, really glad to see her.
From the other room, Gabe yelled, ‘Hey, Sally – how about
some bean dip, huh?’
39
I gritted my teeth.
My mom is the nicest lady in the world. She should’ve
been married to a millionaire, not to some jerk like Gabe.
For her sake, I tried to sound upbeat about my last days at
Yancy Academy. I told her I wasn’t too down about the
expulsion. I’d lasted almost the whole year this time. I’d
made some new friends. I’d done pretty well in Latin. And
honestly, the ﬁghts hadn’t been as bad as the headmaster
said. I liked Yancy Academy. I really had. I put such a good
spin on the year, I almost convinced myself. I started
choking up, thinking about Grover and Mr Brunner. Even
Nancy Boboﬁtt suddenly didn’t seem so bad.
Until that trip to the museum…
‘What?’ my mom asked. Her eyes tugged at my
conscience, trying to pull out the secrets. ‘Did something
scare you?’
‘No, Mom.’
I felt bad lying. I wanted to tell her about Mrs Dodds and
the three old ladies with the yarn, but I thought it would
sound stupid.
She pursed her lips. She knew I was holding back, but she
didn’t push me.
‘I have a surprise for you,’ she said. ‘We’re going to the
beach.’
My eyes widened. ‘Montauk?’
‘Three nights – same cabin.’
‘When?’
She smiled. ‘As soon as I get changed.’
I couldn’t believe it. My mom and I hadn’t been to
Montauk the last two summers, because Gabe said there
wasn’t enough money.
Gabe appeared in the doorway and growled, ‘Bean dip,
Sally? Didn’t you hear me?’
I wanted to punch him, but I met my mom’s eyes and I
understood she was oﬀering me a deal: be nice to Gabe for
40
a little while. Just until she was ready to leave for Montauk.
Then we would get out of here.
‘I was on my way, honey,’ she told Gabe. ‘We were just
talking about the trip.’
Gabe’s eyes got small. ‘The trip? You mean you were
serious about that?’
‘I knew it,’ I muttered. ‘He won’t let us go.’
‘Of course he will,’ my mom said evenly. ‘Your stepfather
is just worried about money. That’s all. Besides,’ she added,
‘Gabriel won’t have to settle for bean dip. I’ll make him
enough seven-layer dip for the whole weekend. Guacamole.
Sour cream. The works.’
Gabe softened a bit. ‘So this money for your trip… it
comes out of your clothes budget, right?’
‘Yes, honey,’ my mother said.
‘And you won’t take my car anywhere but there and back.’
‘We’ll be very careful.’
Gabe scratched his double chin. ‘Maybe if you hurry with
that seven-layer dip… And maybe if the kid apologizes for
interrupting my poker game.’
Maybe if I kick you in your soft spot, I thought. And make
you sing soprano for a week.
But my mom’s eyes warned me not to make him mad.
Why did she put up with this guy? I wanted to scream.
Why did she care what he thought?
‘I’m sorry,’ I muttered. ‘I’m really sorry I interrupted your
incredibly important poker game. Please go back to it right
now.’
Gabe’s eyes narrowed. His tiny brain was probably trying
to detect sarcasm in my statement.
‘Yeah, whatever,’ he decided.
He went back to his game.
‘Thank you, Percy,’ my mom said. ‘Once we get to
Montauk, we’ll talk more about… whatever you’ve forgotten
to tell me, okay?’
41
For a moment, I thought I saw anxiety in her eyes – the
same fear I’d seen in Grover during the bus ride – as if my
mom too felt an odd chill in the air.
But then her smile returned, and I ﬁgured I must have
been mistaken. She ruﬄed my hair and went to make Gabe
his seven-layer dip.
An hour later we were ready to leave.
Gabe took a break from his poker game long enough to
watch me lug my mom’s bags to the car. He kept griping
and groaning about losing her cooking – and more
important, his ‘78 Camaro – for the whole weekend.
‘Not a scratch on this car, brain boy,’ he warned me as I
loaded the last bag. ‘Not one little scratch.’
Like I’d be the one driving. I was twelve. But that didn’t
matter to Gabe. If a seagull so much as pooped on his paint
job, he’d ﬁnd a way to blame me.
Watching him lumber back towards the apartment
building, I got so mad I did something I can’t explain. As
Gabe reached the doorway, I made the hand gesture I’d
seen Grover make on the bus, a sort of warding-oﬀ-evil
gesture, a clawed hand over my heart, then a shoving
movement towards Gabe. The screen door slammed shut so
hard it whacked him in the butt and sent him ﬂying up the
staircase as if he’d been shot from a cannon. Maybe it was
just the wind, or some freak accident with the hinges, but I
didn’t stay long enough to ﬁnd out.
I got in the Camaro and told my mom to step on it.
Our rental cabin was on the south shore, way out at the tip
of Long Island. It was a little pastel box with faded curtains,
half sunken into the dunes. There was always sand in the
sheets and spiders in the cabinets, and most of the time the
sea was too cold to swim in.
I loved the place.
42
We’d been going there since I was a baby. My mom had
been going even longer. She never exactly said, but I knew
why the beach was special to her. It was the place where
she’d met my dad.
As we got closer to Montauk, she seemed to grow
younger, years of worry and work disappearing from her
face. Her eyes turned the colour of the sea.
We got there at sunset, opened all the cabin’s windows,
and went through our usual cleaning routine. We walked on
the beach, fed blue corn chips to the seagulls, and munched
on blue jelly beans, blue saltwater taﬀy, and all the other
free samples my mom had brought from work.
I guess I should explain the blue food.
See, Gabe had once told my mom there was no such
thing. They had this ﬁght, which seemed like a really small
thing at the time. But ever since, my mom went out of her
way to eat blue. She baked blue birthday cakes. She mixed
blueberry smoothies. She bought blue-corn tortilla chips and
brought home blue candy from the shop. This – along with
keeping her maiden name, Jackson, rather than calling
herself Mrs Ugliano – was proof that she wasn’t totally
suckered by Gabe. She did have a rebellious streak, like me.
When it got dark, we made a ﬁre. We roasted hot dogs
and marshmallows. Mom told me stories about when she
was a kid, back before her parents died in the plane crash.
She told me about the books she wanted to write someday,
when she had enough money to quit the candy shop.
Eventually, I got up the nerve to ask about what was
always on my mind whenever we came to Montauk – my
father. Mom’s eyes went all misty. I ﬁgured she would tell
me the same things she always did, but I never got tired of
hearing them.
‘He was kind, Percy,’ she said. ‘Tall, handsome and
powerful. But gentle, too. You have his black hair, you know,
and his green eyes.’
43
Mom ﬁshed a blue jelly bean out of her candy bag. ‘I wish
he could see you, Percy. He would be so proud.’
I wondered how she could say that. What was so great
about me? A dyslexic, hyperactive boy with a D+ report
card, kicked out of school for the sixth time in six years.
‘How old was I?’ I asked. ‘I mean… when he left?’
She watched the ﬂames. ‘He was only with me for one
summer, Percy. Right here at this beach. This cabin.’
‘But… he knew me as a baby.’
‘No, honey. He knew I was expecting a baby, but he never
saw you. He had to leave before you were born.’
I tried to square that with the fact that I seemed to
remember… something about my father. A warm glow. A
smile.
I had always assumed he knew me as a baby. My mom
had never said it outright, but still, I’d felt it must be true.
Now, to be told that he’d never even seen me…
I felt angry at my father. Maybe it was stupid, but I
resented him for going on that ocean voyage, for not having
the guts to marry my mom. He’d left us, and now we were
stuck with Smelly Gabe.
‘Are you going to send me away again?’ I asked her. ‘To
another boarding school?’
She pulled a marshmallow from the ﬁre.
‘I don’t know, honey.’ Her voice was heavy. ‘I think… I
think we’ll have to do something.’
‘Because you don’t want me around?’ I regretted the
words as soon as they were out.
My mom’s eyes welled with tears. She took my hand,
squeezed it tight. ‘Oh, Percy, no. I – I have to, honey. For
your own good. I have to send you away.’
Her words reminded me of what Mr Brunner had said –
that it was best for me to leave Yancy.
‘Because I’m not normal,’ I said.
‘You say that as if it’s a bad thing, Percy. But you don’t
realize how important you are. I thought Yancy Academy
44
would be far enough away. I thought you’d ﬁnally be safe.’
‘Safe from what?’
She met my eyes, and a ﬂood of memories came back to
me – all the weird, scary things that had ever happened to
me, some of which I’d tried to forget.
During third grade, a man in a black trench coat had
stalked me on the playground. When the teachers
threatened to call the police, he went away growling, but no
one believed me when I told them that under his broad-
brimmed hat, the man only had one eye, right in the middle
of his head.
Before that – a really early memory. I was in pre school,
and a teacher accidentally put me down for a nap in a cot
that a snake had slithered into. My mom screamed when
she came to pick me up and found me playing with a limp,
scaly rope I’d somehow managed to strangle to death with
my meaty toddler hands.
In every single school, something creepy had happened,
something unsafe, and I was forced to move.
I knew I should tell my mom about the old ladies at the
fruit stand, and Mrs Dodds at the art museum, about my
weird hallucination that I had sliced my maths teacher into
dust with a sword. But I couldn’t make myself tell her. I had
a strange feeling the news would end our trip to Montauk,
and I didn’t want that.
‘I’ve tried to keep you as close to me as I could,’ my mom
said. ‘They told me that was a mistake. But there’s only one
other option, Percy – the place your father wanted to send
you. And I just… I just can’t stand to do it.’
‘My father wanted me to go to a special school?’
‘Not a school,’ she said softly. ‘A summer camp.’
My head was spinning. Why would my dad – who hadn’t
even stayed around long enough to see me born – talk to
my mom about a summer camp? And if it was so important,
why hadn’t she ever mentioned it before?
45
‘I’m sorry, Percy,’ she said, seeing the look in my eyes.
‘But I can’t talk about it. I – I couldn’t send you to that place.
It might mean saying goodbye to you for good.’
‘For good? But if it’s only a summer camp…’
She turned towards the ﬁre, and I knew from her
expression that if I asked her any more questions she would
start to cry.
That night I had a vivid dream.
It was storming on the beach, and two beautiful animals, a
white horse and a golden eagle, were trying to kill each
other at the edge of the surf. The eagle swooped down and
slashed the horse’s muzzle with its huge talons. The horse
reared up and kicked at the eagle’s wings. As they fought,
the ground rumbled, and a monstrous voice chuckled
somewhere beneath the earth, goading the animals to ﬁght
harder.
I ran towards them, knowing I had to stop them from
killing each other, but I was running in slow motion. I knew I
would be too late. I saw the eagle dive down, its beak aimed
at the horse’s wide eyes, and I screamed, No!
I woke with a start.
Outside, it really was storming, the kind of storm that
cracks trees and blows down houses. There was no horse or
eagle on the beach, just lightning making false daylight, and
ﬁve-metre-high waves pounding the dunes like artillery.
With the next thunderclap, my mom woke. She sat up,
eyes wide, and said, ‘Hurricane.’
I knew that was crazy. Long Island never saw hurricanes
this early in the summer. But the ocean seemed to have
forgotten. Over the roar of the wind, I heard a distant
bellow, an angry, tortured sound that made my hair stand
on end.
Then a much closer noise, like mallets in the sand. A
desperate voice – someone yelling, pounding on our cabin
door.
46
My mother sprang out of bed in her nightgown and threw
open the lock.
Grover stood framed in the doorway against a backdrop of
pouring rain. But he wasn’t… he wasn’t exactly Grover.
‘Searching all night,’ he gasped. ‘What were you
thinking?’
My mother looked at me in terror – not scared of Grover,
but of why he’d come.
‘Percy,’ she said, shouting to be heard over the rain. ‘What
happened at school? What didn’t you tell me?’
I was frozen, looking at Grover. I couldn’t understand what
I was seeing.
‘O Zeu kai alloi theoi!’ he yelled. ‘It’s right behind me!
Didn’t you tell her?’
I was too shocked to register that he’d just cursed in
Ancient Greek, and I’d understood him perfectly. I was too
shocked to wonder how Grover had got here by himself in
the middle of the night. Because Grover didn’t have his
trousers on – and where his legs should be… where his legs
should be…
My mom looked at me sternly and talked in a tone she’d
never used before:’Percy. Tell me now!’
I stammered something about the old ladies at the fruit
stand, and Mrs Dodds, and my mom stared at me, her face
deathly pale in the ﬂashes of lightning.
She grabbed her purse, tossed me my rain jacket, and
said, ‘Get to the car. Both of you. Go!’
Grover ran for the Camaro – but he wasn’t running,
exactly. He was trotting, shaking his shaggy hindquarters,
and suddenly his story about a muscular disorder in his legs
made sense to me. I understood how he could run so fast
and still limp when he walked.
Because where his feet should be, there were no feet.
There were cloven hooves.
47
4    My Mother Teaches Me Bullﬁghting
 
We tore through the night along dark country roads. Wind
slammed against the Camaro. Rain lashed the windshield. I
didn’t know how my mom could see anything, but she kept
her foot on the gas.
Every time there was a ﬂash of lightning, I looked at
Grover sitting next to me in the backseat and I wondered if
I’d gone insane, or if he was wearing some kind of shag-
carpet trousers. But, no, the smell was one I remembered
from kindergarten ﬁeld trips to the petting zoo – lanolin, like
from wool. The smell of a wet barnyard animal.
All I could think to say was, ‘So, you and my mum… know
each other?’
Grover’s eyes ﬂitted to the rearview mirror, though there
were no cars behind us. ‘Not exactly,’ he said. ‘I mean,
we’ve never met in person. But she knew I was watching
you.’
‘Watching me?’
‘Keeping tabs on you. Making sure you were okay. But I
wasn’t faking being your friend,’ he added hastily. ‘I am your
friend.’
‘Um… what are you, exactly?’
‘That doesn’t matter right now.’
‘It doesn’t matter? From the waist down, my best friend is
a donkey –’
Grover let out a sharp, throaty ‘Blaa-ha-ha!’
I’d heard him make that sound before, but I’d always
assumed it was a nervous laugh. Now I realized it was more
48
of an irritated bleat.
‘Goat!’ he cried.
‘What?’
‘I’m a goat from the waist down.’
‘You just said it didn’t matter.’
‘Blaa-ha-ha! There are satyrs who would trample you
under hoof for such an insult!’
‘Whoa. Wait. Satyrs. You mean like… Mr Brunner’s myths?’
‘Were those old ladies at the fruit stand a myth, Percy?
Was Mrs Dodds a myth?’
‘So you admit there was a Mrs Dodds!’
‘Of course.’
‘Then why –’
‘The less you knew, the fewer monsters you’d attract,’
Grover said, like that should be perfectly obvious. ‘We put
Mist over the humans’ eyes. We hoped you’d think the
Kindly One was a hallucination. But it was no good. You
started to realize who you are.’
‘Who I – wait a minute, what do you mean?’
The weird bellowing noise rose up again somewhere
behind us, closer than before. Whatever was chasing us was
still on our trail.
‘Percy,’ my mom said, ‘there’s too much to explain and
not enough time. We have to get you to safety.’
‘Safety from what? Who’s after me?’
‘Oh, nobody much,’ Grover said, obviously still miﬀed
about the donkey comment. ‘Just the Lord of the Dead and a
few of his blood-thirstiest minions.’
‘Grover!’
‘Sorry, Mrs Jackson. Could you drive faster, please?’
I tried to wrap my mind around what was happening, but I
couldn’t do it. I knew this wasn’t a dream. I had no
imagination. I could never dream up something this weird.
My mom made a hard left. We swerved onto a narrower
road, racing past darkened farmhouses and wooded hills
49
and PICK YOUR OWN STRAWBERRIES signs on white picket
fences.
‘Where are we going?’ I asked.
‘The summer camp I told you about.’ My mother’s voice
was tight; she was trying for my sake not to be scared. ‘The
place your father wanted to send you.’
‘The place you didn’t want me to go.’
‘Please, dear,’ my mother begged. ‘This is hard enough.
Try to understand. You’re in danger.’
‘Because some old ladies cut yarn.’
‘Those weren’t old ladies,’ Grover said. ‘Those were the
Fates. Do you know what it means – the fact they appeared
in front of you? They only do that when you’re about to…
when someone’s about to die.’
‘Whoa. You said “you”.’
‘No I didn’t. I said “someone”.’
‘You meant “you”. As in me.’
‘I meant you, like “someone”. Not you, you.’
‘Boys!’ my mom said.
She pulled the wheel hard to the right, and I got a glimpse
of a ﬁgure she’d swerved to avoid – a dark ﬂuttering shape
now lost behind us in the storm.
‘What was that?’ I asked.
‘We’re almost there,’ my mother said, ignoring my
question. ‘Another mile. Please. Please. Please.’
I didn’t know where there was, but I found myself leaning
forward in the car, anticipating, wanting us to arrive.
Outside, nothing but rain and darkness – the kind of
empty countryside you get way out on the tip of Long
Island. I thought about Mrs Dodds and the moment when
she’d changed into the thing with pointed teeth and
leathery wings. My limbs went numb from delayed shock.
She really hadn’t been human. She’d meant to kill me.
Then I thought about Mr Brunner… and the sword he had
thrown me. Before I could ask Grover about that, the hair
50
rose on the back of my neck. There was a blinding ﬂash, a
jaw-rattling boom!, and our car exploded.
I remember feeling weightless, like I was being crushed,
fried and hosed down all at the same time.
I peeled my forehead oﬀ the back of the driver’s seat and
said, ‘Ow.’
‘Percy!’ my mom shouted.
‘I’m okay….’
I tried to shake oﬀ the daze. I wasn’t dead. The car hadn’t
really exploded. We’d swerved into a ditch. Our driver’s-side
doors were wedged in the mud. The roof had cracked open
like an eggshell and rain was pouring in.
Lightning. That was the only explanation. We’d been
blasted right oﬀ the road. Next to me in the backseat was a
big motionless lump. ‘Grover!’
He was slumped over, blood trickling from the side of his
mouth. I shook his furry hip, thinking, No! Even if you are
half barnyard animal, you’re my best friend and I don’t want
you to die!
Then he groaned, ‘Food,’ and I knew there was hope.
‘Percy,’ my mother said, ‘we have to…’ Her voice faltered.
I looked back. In a ﬂash of lightning, through the mud-
spattered rear windshield, I saw a ﬁgure lumbering towards
us on the shoulder of the road. The sight of it made my skin
crawl. It was a dark silhouette of a huge guy, like a football
player. He seemed to be holding a blanket over his head. His
top half was bulky and fuzzy. His upraised hands made it
look like he had horns.
I swallowed hard. ‘Who is –’
‘Percy,’ my mother said, deadly serious. ‘Get out of the
car.’
My mother threw herself against the driver’s-side door. It
was jammed shut in the mud. I tried mine. Stuck too. I
looked up desperately at the hole in the roof. It might’ve
been an exit, but the edges were sizzling and smoking.
51
‘Climb out the passenger’s side!’ my mother told me.
‘Percy – you have to run. Do you see that big tree?’
‘What?’
Another ﬂash of lightning, and through the smoking hole
in the roof I saw the tree she meant: a huge, White House
Christmas-tree-sized pine at the crest of the nearest hill.
‘That’s the property line,’ my mom said. ‘Get over that hill
and you’ll see a big farmhouse down in the valley. Run and
don’t look back. Yell for help. Don’t stop until you reach the
door.’
‘Mom, you’re coming, too.’
Her face was pale, her eyes as sad as when she looked at
the ocean.
‘No!’ I shouted. ‘You are coming with me. Help me carry
Grover.’
‘Food!’ Grover moaned, a little louder.
The man with the blanket on his head kept coming
towards us, making his grunting, snorting noises. As he got
closer, I realized he couldn’t be holding a blanket over his
head, because his hands – huge meaty hands – were
swinging at his sides. There was no blanket. Meaning the
bulky, fuzzy mass that was too big to be his head… was his
head. And the points that looked like horns…
‘He doesn’t want us,’ my mother told me. ‘He wants you.
Besides, I can’t cross the property line.’
‘But…’
‘We don’t have time, Percy. Go. Please.’
I got mad, then – mad at my mother, at Grover the goat,
at the thing with horns that was lumbering towards us
slowly and deliberately like, like a bull.
I climbed across Grover and pushed the door open into
the rain. ‘We’re going together. Come on, Mom.’
‘I told you –’
‘Mom! I am not leaving you. Help me with Grover.’
I didn’t wait for her answer. I scrambled outside, dragging
Grover from the car. He was surprisingly light, but I couldn’t
52
have carried him very far if my mom hadn’t come to my aid.
Together, we draped Grover’s arms over our shoulders
and started stumbling uphill through wet waist-high grass.
Glancing back, I got my ﬁrst clear look at the monster. He
was seven feet tall, easy, his arms and legs like something
from the cover of Muscle Man magazine – bulging biceps
and triceps and a bunch of other ‘ceps, all stuﬀed like
baseballs under vein-webbed skin. He wore no clothes
except underwear – I mean, bright white Fruit-of-the-Looms,
which would’ve been funny except for the top half of his
body. Coarse brown hair started at about his bellybutton and
got thicker as it reached his shoulders.
His neck was a mass of muscle and fur leading up to his
enormous head, which had a snout as long as my arm,
snotty nostrils with a gleaming brass ring, cruel black eyes,
and horns – enormous black-and-white horns with points you
just couldn’t get from an electric sharpener.
I recognized the monster, all right. He had been in one of
the ﬁrst stories Mr Brunner told us. But he couldn’t be real.
I blinked the rain out of my eyes. ‘That’s –’
‘Pasiphae’s son,’ my mother said. ‘I wish I’d known how
badly they want to kill you.’
‘But a he’s a min–’
‘Don’t say his name,’ she warned. ‘Names have power.’
The pine tree was still way too far – a hundred metres
uphill at least.
I glanced behind me again.
The bull-man hunched over our car, looking in the
windows – or not looking, exactly. More like snuﬄing,
nuzzling. I wasn’t sure why he bothered, since we were only
about ﬁfteen metres away.
‘Food?’ Grover moaned.
‘Shhh,’ I told him. ‘Mom, what’s he doing? Doesn’t he see
us?’
‘His sight and hearing are terrible,’ she said. ‘He goes by
smell. But he’ll ﬁgure out where we are soon enough.’
53
As if on cue, the bull-man bellowed in rage. He picked up
Gabe’s Camaro by the torn roof, the chassis creaking and
groaning. He raised the car over his head and threw it down
the road. It slammed into the wet asphalt and skidded in a
shower of sparks for about half a mile before coming to a
stop. The gas tank exploded.
Not a scratch, I remembered Gabe saying.
Oops.
‘Percy,’ my mom said. ‘When he sees us, he’ll charge.
Wait until the last second, then jump out of the way –
directly sideways. He can’t change direction very well once
he’s charging. Do you understand?’
‘How do you know all this?’
‘I’ve been worried about an attack for a long time. I should
have expected this. I was selﬁsh, keeping you near me.’
‘Keeping me near you? But –’
Another bellow of rage, and the bull-man started tromping
uphill.
He’d smelled us.
The pine tree was only a few more metres, but the hill was
getting steeper and slicker, and Grover wasn’t getting any
lighter.
The bull-man closed in. Another few seconds and he’d be
on top of us.
My mother must’ve been exhausted, but she shouldered
Grover. ‘Go, Percy! Separate! Remember what I said.’
I didn’t want to split up, but I had the feeling she was right
– it was our only chance. I sprinted to the left, turned, and
saw the creature bearing down on me. His black eyes
glowed with hate. He reeked like rotten meat.
He lowered his head and charged, those razor-sharp horns
aimed straight at my chest.
The fear in my stomach made me want to bolt, but that
wouldn’t work. I could never outrun this thing. So I held my
ground, and at the last moment, I jumped to the side.
54
The bull-man stormed past like a freight train, then
bellowed with frustration and turned, but not towards me
this time, towards my mother, who was setting Grover down
in the grass.
We’d reached the crest of the hill. Down the other side I
could see a valley, just as my mother had said, and the
lights of a farmhouse glowing yellow through the rain. But
that was half a mile away. We’d never make it.
The bull-man grunted, pawing the ground. He kept eyeing
my mother, who was now retreating slowly downhill, back
towards the road, trying to lead the monster away from
Grover.
‘Run, Percy!’ she told me. ‘I can’t go any further. Run!’
But I just stood there, frozen in fear, as the monster
charged her. She tried to sidestep, as she’d told me to do,
but the monster had learned his lesson. His hand shot out
and grabbed her by the neck as she tried to get away. He
lifted her as she struggled, kicking and pummelling the air.
‘Mom!’
She caught my eyes, managed to choke out one last word:
‘Go!’
Then, with an angry roar, the monster closed his ﬁsts
around my mother’s neck, and she dissolved before my
eyes, melting into light, a shimmering golden form, as if she
were a holographic projection. A blinding ﬂash, and she was
simply… gone.
‘No!’
Anger replaced my fear. Newfound strength burned in my
limbs – the same rush of energy I’d got when Mrs Dodds
grew talons.
The bull-man bore down on Grover, who lay helpless in
the grass. The monster hunched over, snuﬄing my best
friend, as if he were about to lift Grover up and make him
dissolve too.
I couldn’t allow that.
I stripped oﬀ my red rain jacket.
55
‘HEY!’ I screamed, waving the jacket, running to one side
of the monster. ‘Hey, stupid! Ground beef!’
‘Raaaarrrrr!’ The monster turned towards me, shaking his
meaty ﬁsts.
I had an idea – a stupid idea, but better than no idea at
all. I put my back to the big pine tree and waved my red
jacket in front of the bull-man, thinking I’d jump out of the
way at the last moment.
But it didn’t happen like that.
The bull-man charged too fast, his arms out to grab me
whichever way I tried to dodge.
Time slowed down.
My legs tensed. I couldn’t jump sideways, so I leaped
straight up, kicking oﬀ from the creature’s head, using it as
a springboard, turning in midair and landing on his neck.
How did I do that? I didn’t have time to ﬁgure it out. A
millisecond later, the monster’s head slammed into the tree
and the impact nearly knocked my teeth out.
The bull-man staggered around, trying to shake me. I
locked my arms around his horns to keep from being
thrown. Thunder and lightning were still going strong. The
rain was in my eyes. The smell of rotten meat burned my
nostrils.
The monster shook himself around and bucked like a
rodeo bull. He should have just backed up into the tree and
smashed me ﬂat, but I was starting to realize that this thing
had only one gear: forward.
Meanwhile, Grover started groaning in the grass. I wanted
to yell at him to shut up, but the way I was getting tossed
around, if I opened my mouth I’d bite my own tongue oﬀ.
‘Food!’ Grover moaned.
The bull-man wheeled towards him, pawed the ground
again, and got ready to charge. I thought about how he had
squeezed the life out of my mother, made her disappear in
a ﬂash of light, and rage ﬁlled me like high-octane fuel. I got
both hands around one horn and I pulled backwards with all
56
my might. The monster tensed, gave a surprised grunt, then
– snap!
The bull-man screamed and ﬂung me through the air. I
landed ﬂat on my back in the grass. My head smacked
against a rock. When I sat up, my vision was blurry, but I
had a horn in my hands, a ragged bone weapon the size of a
knife.
The monster charged.
Without thinking, I rolled to one side and came up
kneeling. As the monster barrelled past, I drove the broken
horn straight into his side, right up under his furry rib cage.
The bull-man roared in agony. He ﬂailed, clawing at his
chest, then began to disintegrate – not like my mother, in a
ﬂash of golden light, but like crumbling sand, blown away in
chunks by the wind, the same way Mrs Dodds had burst
apart.
The monster was gone.
The rain had stopped. The storm still rumbled, but only in
the distance. I smelled like livestock and my knees were
shaking. My head felt like it was splitting open. I was weak
and scared and trembling with grief. I’d just seen my mother
vanish. I wanted to lie down and cry, but there was Grover,
needing my help, so I managed to haul him up and stagger
down into the valley, towards the lights of the farmhouse. I
was crying, calling for my mother, but I held on to Grover – I
wasn’t going to let him go.
The last thing I remember is collapsing on a wooden
porch, looking up at a ceiling fan circling above me, moths
ﬂying around a yellow light and the stern faces of a familiar-
looking bearded man and a pretty girl, her blonde hair
curled like Cinderella’s. They both looked down at me, and
the girl said, ‘He’s the one. He must be.’
‘Silence, Annabeth,’ the man said. ‘He’s still conscious.
Bring him inside.’
57
5    I Play Pinochle with a Horse
 
I had weird dreams full of barnyard animals. Most of them
wanted to kill me. The rest wanted food.
I must’ve woken up several times, but what I heard and
saw made no sense, so I just passed out again. I remember
lying in a soft bed, being spoon-fed something that tasted
like buttered popcorn, only it was pudding. The girl with
curly blonde hair hovered over me, smirking as she scraped
drips oﬀ my chin with the spoon.
When she saw my eyes open, she asked, ‘What will
happen at the summer solstice?’
I managed to croak, ‘What?’
She looked around, as if afraid someone would overhear.
‘What’s going on? What was stolen? We’ve only got a few
weeks!’
‘I’m sorry,’ I mumbled, ‘I don’t…’
Somebody knocked on the door, and the girl quickly ﬁlled
my mouth with pudding.
The next time I woke up, the girl was gone.
A husky blond dude, like a surfer, stood in the corner of
the bedroom keeping watch over me. He had blue eyes – at
least a dozen of them – on his cheeks, his forehead, the
backs of his hands.
* * *
 
When I ﬁnally came around for good, there was nothing
weird about my surroundings, except that they were nicer
58
than I was used to. I was sitting in a deck chair on a huge
porch, gazing across a meadow at green hills in the
distance. The breeze smelled like strawberries. There was a
blanket over my legs, a pillow behind my neck. All that was
great, but my mouth felt like a scorpion had been using it
for a nest. My tongue was dry and nasty and every one of
my teeth hurt.
On the table next to me was a tall drink. It looked like iced
apple juice, with a green straw and a paper parasol stuck
through a maraschino cherry.
My hand was so weak I almost dropped the glass once I
got my ﬁngers around it.
‘Careful,’ a familiar voice said.
Grover was leaning against the porch railing, looking like
he hadn’t slept in a week. Under one arm, he cradled a shoe
box. He was wearing blue jeans, Converse hi-tops and a
bright orange T-shirt that said CAMP HALF-BLOOD. Just plain
old Grover. Not the goat boy.
So maybe I’d had a nightmare. Maybe my mom was okay.
We were still on vacation, and we’d stopped here at this big
house for some reason. And…
‘You saved my life,’ Grover said. ‘I… well, the least I could
do… I went back to the hill. I thought you might want this.’
Reverently, he placed the shoe box in my lap.
Inside was a black-and-white bulls horn, the base jagged
from being broken oﬀ, the tip splattered with dried blood. It
hadn’t been a nightmare.
‘The Minotaur,’ said.
‘Um, Percy, it isn’t a good idea –’
‘That’s what they call it in the Greek myths, isn’t it?’ I
demanded. ‘The Minotaur. Half man, half bull.’
Grover shifted uncomfortably. ‘You’ve been out for two
days. How much do you remember?’
‘My mom. Is she really…’
He looked down.
59
I stared across the meadow. There were groves of trees, a
winding stream, acres of strawberries spread out under the
blue sky. The valley was surrounded by rolling hills, and the
tallest one, directly in front of us, was the one with the huge
pine tree on top. Even that looked beautiful in the sunlight.
My mother was gone. The whole world should be black
and cold. Nothing should look beautiful.
‘I’m sorry,’ Grover sniﬄed. ‘I’m a failure. I’m – I’m the
worst satyr in the world.’
He moaned, stomping his foot so hard it came oﬀ. I mean,
the Converse hi-top came oﬀ. The inside was ﬁlled with
Styrofoam, except for a hoof-shaped hole.
‘Oh, Styx!’ he mumbled.
Thunder rolled across the clear sky.
As he struggled to get his hoof back in the fake foot, I
thought, Well, that settles it.
Grover was a satyr. I was ready to bet that if I shaved his
curly brown hair, I’d ﬁnd tiny horns on his head. But I was
too miserable to care that satyrs existed, or even Minotaurs.
All that meant was my mom really had been squeezed into
nothingness, dissolved into yellow light.
I was alone. An orphan. I would have to live with… Smelly
Gabe? No. That would never happen. I would live on the
streets ﬁrst. I would pretend I was seventeen and join the
army. I’d do something.
Grover was still sniﬄing. The poor kid – poor goat, satyr,
whatever – looked as if he expected to be hit.
I said, ‘It wasn’t your fault.’
‘Yes, it was. I was supposed to protect you.’
‘Did my mother ask you to protect me?’
‘No. But that’s my job. I’m a keeper. At least… I was.’
‘But why…’ I suddenly felt dizzy, my vision swimming.
‘Don’t strain yourself,’ Grover said. ‘Here.’
He helped me hold my glass and put the straw to my lips.
I recoiled at the taste, because I was expecting apple
juice. It wasn’t that at all. It was chocolate-chip cookies.
60
Liquid cookies. And not just any cookies – my mom’s
homemade blue chocolate-chip cookies, buttery and hot,
with the chips still melting. Drinking it, my whole body felt
warm and good, full of energy. My grief didn’t go away, but I
felt as if my mom had just brushed her hand against my
cheek, given me a cookie the way she used to when I was
small, and told me everything was going to be okay.
Before I knew it, I’d drained the glass. I stared into it, sure
I’d just had a warm drink, but the ice cubes hadn’t even
melted.
‘Was it good?’ Grover asked.
I nodded.
‘What did it taste like?’ He sounded so wistful, I felt guilty.
‘Sorry,’ I said. ‘I should’ve let you taste.’
His eyes got wide. ‘No! That’s not what I meant. I just…
wondered.’
‘Chocolate-chip cookies,’ I said. ‘My mom’s. Homemade.’
He sighed. ‘And how do you feel?’
‘Like I could throw Nancy Boboﬁt a hundred metres.’
‘That’s good,’ he said. ‘That’s good. I don’t think you
should risk drinking any more of that stuﬀ.’
‘What do you mean?’
He took the empty glass from me gingerly, as if it were
dynamite, and set it back on the table. ‘Come on. Chiron
and Mr D are waiting.’
The porch wrapped all the way around the farmhouse.
My legs felt wobbly trying to walk that far. Grover oﬀered
to carry the Minotaur horn, but I held on to it. I’d paid for
that souvenir the hard way. I wasn’t going to let it go.
As we came around the opposite end of the house, I
caught my breath.
We must’ve been on the north shore of Long Island,
because on this side of the house, the valley marched all
the way up to Long Island Sound, which glittered about a
mile in the distance. Between here and there, I simply
61
couldn’t process everything I was seeing. The landscape
was dotted with buildings that looked like ancient Greek
architecture – an open-air pavilion, an amphitheatre, a
circular arena – except that they all looked brand new, their
white marble columns sparkling in the sun. In a nearby
sandpit, a dozen high school-age kids and satyrs played
volleyball. Canoes glided across a small lake. Kids in bright
orange T-shirts like Grover’s were chasing each other
around a cluster of cabins nestled in the woods. Some shot
targets at an archery range. Others rode horses down a
wooded trail, and, unless I was hallucinating, some of their
horses had wings.
Down at the end of the porch, two men sat across from
each other at a card table. The blonde-haired girl who’d
spoon-fed me popcorn-ﬂavoured pudding was leaning on
the porch rail next to them.
The man facing me was small, but porky. He had a red
nose, big watery eyes and curly hair so black it was almost
purple. He looked like those paintings of baby angels – what
do you call them, hubbubs? No, cherubs. That’s it. He looked
like a cherub who’d turned middle-aged in a trailer park. He
wore a tiger-pattern Hawaiian shirt, and he would’ve ﬁtted
right in at one of Gabe’s poker parties, except I got the
feeling this guy could’ve out-gambled even my stepfather.
‘That’s Mr D,’ Grover murmured to me. ‘He’s the camp
director. Be polite. The girl, that’s Annabeth Chase. She’s
just a camper, but she’s been here longer than just about
anybody. And you already know Chiron…’
He pointed at the guy whose back was to me.
First, I realized he was sitting in the wheelchair. Then I
recognized the tweed jacket, the thinning brown hair, the
scraggly beard.
‘Mr Brunner!’ I cried.
The Latin teacher turned and smiled at me. His eyes had
that mischievous glint they sometimes got in class when he
62
pulled a pop quiz and made all the multiple choice answers
B.
‘Ah, good, Percy,’ he said. ‘Now we have four for
pinochle.’
He oﬀered me a chair to the right of Mr D, who looked at
me with bloodshot eyes and heaved a great sigh. ‘Oh, I
suppose I must say it. Welcome to Camp Half-Blood. There.
Now don’t expect me to be glad to see you.’
‘Uh, thanks.’ I scooted a little further away from him
because, if there was one thing I had learned from living
with Gabe, it was how to tell when an adult has been hitting
the happy juice. If Mr D was a stranger to alcohol, I was a
satyr.
‘Annabeth?’ Mr Brunner called to the blonde girl.
She came forward and Mr Brunner introduced us. ‘This
young lady nursed you back to health, Percy. Annabeth, my
dear, why don’t you go check on Percy’s bunk? We’ll be
putting him in cabin eleven for now.’
Annabeth said, ‘Sure, Chiron.’
She was probably my age, maybe a couple of centimetres
taller, and a whole lot more athletic-looking. With her deep
tan and her curly blonde hair, she was almost exactly what I
thought a stereotypical California girl would look like, except
her eyes ruined the image. They were a startling grey, like
storm clouds; pretty, but intimidating, too, as if she were
analysing the best way to take me down in a ﬁght.
She glanced at the Minotaur horn in my hands, then back
at me. I imagined she was going to say, You killed a
Minotaur! or Wow, you’re so awesome! or something like
that.
Instead she said, ‘You drool when you sleep.’
Then she sprinted oﬀ down the lawn, her blonde hair
ﬂying behind her.
‘So,’ I said, anxious to change the subject. ‘You, uh, work
here, Mr Brunner?’
63
‘Not Mr Brunner,’ the ex-Mr Brunner said. ‘I’m afraid that
was a pseudonym. You may call me Chiron.’
‘Okay.’ Totally confused, I looked at the director. ‘And Mr
D… does that stand for something?’
Mr D stopped shuﬄing the cards. He looked at me like I’d
just belched loudly. ‘Young man, names are powerful things.
You don’t just go around using them for no reason.’
‘Oh. Right. Sorry.’
‘I must say, Percy,’ Chiron-Brunner broke in, ‘I’m glad to
see you alive. It’s been a long time since I’ve made a house
call to a potential camper. I’d hate to think I’ve wasted my
time.’
‘House call?’
‘My year at Yancy Academy, to instruct you. We have
satyrs at most schools, of course, keeping a lookout. But
Grover alerted me as soon as he met you. He sensed you
were something special, so I decided to come upstate. I
convinced the other Latin teacher to… ah, take a leave of
absence.’
I tried to remember the beginning of the school year. It
seemed like so long ago, but I did have a fuzzy memory of
there being another Latin teacher my ﬁrst week at Yancy.
Then, without explanation, he had disappeared and Mr
Brunner had taken the class.
‘You came to Yancy just to teach me?’ I asked.
Chiron nodded. ‘Honestly, I wasn’t sure about you at ﬁrst.
We contacted your mother, let her know we were keeping
an eye on you in case you were ready for Camp Half-Blood.
But you still had so much to learn. Nevertheless, you made
it here alive, and that’s always the ﬁrst test.’
‘Grover,’ Mr D said impatiently, ‘are you playing or not?’
‘Yes, sir!’ Grover trembled as he took the fourth chair,
though I didn’t know why he should be so afraid of a pudgy
little man in a tiger-print Hawaiian shirt.
‘You do know how to play pinochle?’ Mr D eyed me
suspiciously.
64
‘I’m afraid not,’ I said.
‘I’m afraid not, sir,’ he said.
‘Sir,’ I repeated. I was liking the camp director less and
less.
‘Well,’ he told me, ‘it is, along with gladiator ﬁghting and
Pac-Man, one of the greatest games ever invented by
humans. I would expect all civilized young men to know the
rules.’
‘I’m sure the boy can learn,’ Chiron said.
‘Please,’ I said, ‘what is this place? What am I doing here?
Mr Brun – Chiron – why would you go to Yancy Academy just
to teach me?’
Mr D snorted. ‘I asked the same question.’
The camp director dealt the cards. Grover ﬂinched every
time one landed in his pile.
Chiron smiled at me sympathetically, the way he used to
in Latin class, as if to let me know that no matter what my
average was, I was his star student. He expected me to
have the right answer.
‘Percy,’ he said. ‘Did your mother tell you nothing?’
‘She said…’ I remembered her sad eyes, looking out over
the sea. ‘She told me she was afraid to send me here, even
though my father had wanted her to. She said that once I
was here, I probably couldn’t leave. She wanted to keep me
close to her.’
‘Typical,’ Mr D said. ‘That’s how they usually get killed.
Young man, are you bidding or not?’
‘What?’ I asked.
He explained, impatiently, how you bid in pinochle, and so
I did.
‘I’m afraid there’s too much to tell,’ Chiron said. ‘I’m afraid
our usual orientation ﬁlm won’t be suﬃcient.’
‘Orientation ﬁlm?’ I asked.
‘No,’ Chiron decided. ‘Well, Percy. You know your friend
Grover is a satyr. You know –’ he pointed to the horn in the
shoebox – ‘that you have killed a Minotaur. No small feat,
65
either, lad. What you may not know is that great powers are
at work in your life. Gods – the forces you call the Greek
gods – are very much alive.’
I stared at the others around the table.
I waited for somebody to yell, Not! But all I got was Mr D
yelling, ‘Oh, a royal marriage. Trick! Trick!’ He cackled as he
tallied up his points.
‘Mr D,’ Grover asked timidly, ‘if you’re not going to eat it,
could I have your Diet Coke can?’
‘Eh? Oh, all right.’
Grover bit a huge shard out of the empty aluminium can
and chewed it mournfully.
‘Wait,’ I told Chiron. ‘You’re telling me there’s such a thing
as God.’
‘Well, now,’ Chiron said. ‘God – capital G, God. That’s a
diﬀerent matter altogether. We shan’t deal with the
metaphysical.’
‘Metaphysical? But you were just talking about –’
‘Ah, gods, plural, as in, great beings that control the forces
of nature and human endeavours: the immortal gods of
Olympus. That’s a smaller matter.’
‘Smaller!’
‘Yes, quite. The gods we discussed in Latin class.’
‘Zeus,’ I said. ‘Hera. Apollo. You mean them.’
And there it was again – distant thunder on a cloudless
day.
‘Young man,’ said Mr D. ‘I would really be less casual
about throwing those names around, if I were you.’
‘But they’re stories,’ I said. ‘They’re – myths, to explain
lightning and the seasons and stuﬀ. They’re what people
believed before there was science.’
‘Science!’ Mr D scoﬀed. ‘And tell me, Perseus Jackson –’
I ﬂinched when he said my real name, which I never told
anybody.
‘– what will people think of your “science” two thousand
years from now?’ Mr D continued. ‘Hmm? They will call it
66
primitive mumbo jumbo. That’s what. Oh, I love mortals –
they have absolutely no sense of perspective. They think
they’ve come so˜o˜o far. And have they, Chiron? Look at
this boy and tell me.’
I wasn’t liking Mr D much, but there was something about
the way he called me mortal, as if… he wasn’t. It was
enough to put a lump in my throat, to suggest why Grover
was dutifully minding his cards, chewing his soda can, and
keeping his mouth shut.
‘Percy,’ Chiron said, ‘you may choose to believe or not,
but the fact is that immortal means immortal. Can you
imagine that for a moment, never dying? Never fading?
Existing, just as you are, for all time?’
I was about to answer, oﬀ the top of my head, that it
sounded like a pretty good deal, but the tone of Chiron’s
voice made me hesitate.
‘You mean, whether people believed in you or not,’ I said.
‘Exactly,’ Chiron agreed. ‘If you were a god, how would
you like being called a myth, an old story to explain
lightning? What if I told you, Perseus Jackson, that someday
people would call you a myth, just created to explain how
little boys can get over losing their mothers?’
My heart pounded. He was trying to make me angry for
some reason, but I wasn’t going to let him. I said, ‘I wouldn’t
like it. But I don’t believe in gods.’
‘Oh, you’d better,’ Mr D murmured. ‘Before one of them
incinerates you.’
Grover said, ‘P-please, sir. He’s just lost his mother. He’s in
shock.’
‘A lucky thing, too,’ Mr D grumbled, playing a card. ‘Bad
enough I’m conﬁned to this miserable job, working with
boys who don’t even believe!’
He waved his hand and a goblet appeared on the table, as
if the sunlight had bent, momentarily, and woven the air
into glass. The goblet ﬁlled itself with red wine.
My jaw dropped, but Chiron hardly looked up.
67
‘Mr D,’ he warned, ‘your restrictions.’
Mr D looked at the wine and feigned surprise.
‘Dear me.’ He looked at the sky and yelled, ‘Old habits!
Sorry!’
More thunder.
Mr D waved his hand again, and the wineglass changed
into a fresh can of Diet Coke. He sighed unhappily, popped
the top of the soda, and went back to his card game.
Chiron winked at me. ‘Mr D oﬀended his father a while
back, took a fancy to a wood nymph who had been declared
oﬀ-limits.’
‘A wood nymph,’ I repeated, still staring at the Diet Coke
can like it was from outer space.
‘Yes,’ Mr D confessed. ‘Father loves to punish me. The ﬁrst
time, Prohibition. Ghastly! Absolutely horrid ten years! The
second time – well, she really was pretty, and I couldn’t stay
away – the second time, he sent me here. Half-Blood Hill.
Summer camp for brats like you. “Be a better inﬂuence,” he
told me. “Work with youths rather than tearing them down.”
Ha! Absolutely unfair.’
Mr D sounded about six years old, like a pouting little kid.
‘And…’ I stammered, ‘your father is…’
‘Di immortales, Chiron,’ Mr D said. ‘I thought you taught
this boy the basics. My father is Zeus, of course.’
I ran through D names from Greek mythology. Wine. The
skin of a tiger. The satyrs that all seemed to work here. The
way Grover cringed, as if Mr D were his master.
‘You’re Dionysus,’ I said. ‘The god of wine.’
Mr D rolled his eyes. ‘What do they say, these days,
Grover? Do the children say, “Well, duh!”?’
‘Y-yes, Mr D.’
‘Then, “Well, duh!” Percy Jackson. Did you think I was
Aphrodite, perhaps?’
‘You’re a god.’
‘Yes, child.’
‘A god. You.’
68
He turned to look at me straight on, and I saw a kind of
purplish ﬁre in his eyes, a hint that this whiny, plump little
man was only showing me the tiniest bit of his true nature. I
saw visions of grape vines choking unbelievers to death,
drunken warriors insane with battle lust, sailors screaming
as their hands turned to ﬂippers, their faces elongating into
dolphin snouts. I knew that if I pushed him, Mr D would show
me worse things. He would plant a disease in my brain that
would leave me wearing a straitjacket in a rubber room for
the rest of my life.
‘Would you like to test me, child?’ he said quietly.
‘No. No, sir.’
The ﬁre died a little. He turned back to his card game. ‘I
believe I win.’
‘Not quite, Mr D,’ Chiron said. He set down a straight,
tallied the points, and said, ‘The game goes to me.’
I thought Mr D was going to vaporize Chiron right out of
his wheelchair, but he just sighed through his nose, as if he
were used to being beaten by the Latin teacher. He got up,
and Grover rose, too.
‘I’m tired,’ Mr D said. ‘I believe I’ll take a nap before the
sing-along tonight. But ﬁrst, Grover, we need to talk, again,
about 
your 
less-than-perfect 
performance 
on 
this
assignment.’
Grover’s face beaded with sweat. ‘Y-yes, sir.’
Mr D turned to me. ‘Cabin eleven, Percy Jackson. And
mind your manners.’
He swept into the farmhouse, Grover following miserably.
‘Will Grover be okay?’ I asked Chiron.
Chiron nodded, though he looked a bit troubled. ‘Old
Dionysus isn’t really mad. He just hates his job. He’s been…
ah, grounded, I guess you would say, and he can’t stand
waiting another century before he’s allowed to go back to
Olympus.’
‘Mount Olympus,’ I said. ‘You’re telling me there really is a
palace there?’
69
‘Well now, there’s Mount Olympus in Greece. And then
there’s the home of the gods, the convergence point of their
powers, which did indeed used to be on Mount Olympus. It’s
still called Mount Olympus, out of respect to the old ways,
but the palace moves, Percy, just as the gods do.’
‘You mean the Greek gods are here? Like… in America?’
‘Well, certainly. The gods move with the heart of the
West.’
‘The what?’
‘Come now, Percy. What you call “Western civilization”. Do
you think it’s just an abstract concept? No, it’s a living force.
A collective consciousness that has burned bright for
thousands of years. The gods are part of it. You might even
say they are the source of it, or at least, they are tied so
tightly to it that they couldn’t possibly fade, not unless all of
Western civilization were obliterated. The ﬁre started in
Greece. Then, as you well know – or as I hope you know,
since you passed my course – the heart of the ﬁre moved to
Rome, and so did the gods. Oh, diﬀerent names, perhaps –
Jupiter for Zeus, Venus for Aphrodite, and so on – but the
same forces, the same gods.’
‘And then they died.’
‘Died? No. Did the West die? The gods simply moved, to
Germany, to France, to Spain, for a while. Wherever the
ﬂame was brightest, the gods were there. They spent
several centuries in England. All you need to do is look at
the architecture. People do not forget the gods. Every place
they’ve ruled, for the last three thousand years, you can see
them in paintings, in statues, on the most important
buildings. And yes, Percy, of course they are now in your
United States. Look at your symbol, the eagle of Zeus. Look
at the statue of Prometheus in Rockefeller Center, the Greek
facades of your government buildings in Washington. I defy
you to ﬁnd any American city where the Olympians are not
prominently displayed in multiple places. Like it or not – and
believe me, plenty of people weren’t very fond of Rome,
70
either – America is now the heart of the ﬂame. It is the great
power of the West. And so Olympus is here. And we are
here.’
It was all too much, especially the fact that I seemed to be
included in Chiron’s we, as if I were part of some club.
‘Who are you, Chiron? Who… who am I?’
Chiron smiled. He shifted his weight as if he were going to
get up out of his wheelchair, but I knew that was impossible.
He was paralysed from the waist down.
‘Who are you,’ he mused. ‘Well, that’s the question we all
want answered, isn’t it? But for now, we should get you a
bunk in cabin eleven. There will be new friends to meet. And
plenty of time for lessons tomorrow. Besides, there will be
toasted marshmallows at the campﬁre tonight, and I simply
adore them.’
And then he did rise from his wheelchair. But there was
something odd about the way he did it. His blanket fell away
from his legs, but the legs didn’t move. His waist kept
getting longer, rising above his belt. At ﬁrst, I thought he
was wearing very long, white velvet underwear, but as he
kept rising out of the chair, taller than any man, I realized
that the velvet underwear wasn’t underwear; it was the
front of an animal, muscle and sinew under coarse white fur.
And the wheelchair wasn’t a chair. It was some kind of
container, an enormous box on wheels, and it must’ve been
magic, because there’s no way it could’ve held all of him. A
leg came out, long and knobby-kneed, with a huge polished
hoof. Then another front leg, then hindquarters, and then
the box was empty, nothing but a metal shell with a couple
of fake human legs attached.
I stared at the horse who had just sprung from the
wheelchair: a huge white stallion. But where its neck should
be was the upper body of my Latin teacher, smoothly
grafted to the horse’s trunk.
‘What a relief the centaur said. ‘I’d been cooped up in
there so long, my fetlocks had fallen asleep. Now, come,
71
Percy Jackson. Let’s meet the other campers.’
72
6    I Become Supreme Lord of the
Bathroom
 
Once I got over the fact that my Latin teacher was a horse,
we had a nice tour, though I was careful not to walk behind
him. 
I’d 
done 
pooper-scooper 
patrol 
in 
the 
Macy’s
Thanksgiving Day Parade a few times, and, I’m sorry, I did
not trust Chiron’s back end the way I trusted his front.
We passed the volleyball pit. Several of the campers
nudged each other. One pointed to the Minotaur horn I was
carrying. Another said, ‘That’s him.’
Most of the campers were older than me. Their satyr
friends were bigger than Grover, all of them trotting around
in orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-shirts, with nothing else to
cover their bare shaggy hindquarters. I wasn’t normally shy,
but the way they stared at me made me uncomfortable. I
felt like they were expecting me to do a cartwheel or
something.
I looked back at the farmhouse. It was a lot bigger than I’d
realized – four storeys tall, sky blue with white trim, like an
upmarket seaside resort. I was checking out the brass eagle
weather vane on top when something caught my eye, a
shadow in the uppermost window of the attic gable.
Something had moved the curtain, just for a second, and I
got the distinct impression I was being watched.
‘What’s up there?’ I asked Chiron.
He looked where I was pointing, and his smile faded. ‘Just
the attic.’
‘Somebody lives there?’
73
‘No,’ he said with ﬁnality. ‘Not a single living thing.’
I got the feeling he was being truthful. But I was also sure
something had moved that curtain.
‘Come along, Percy,’ Chiron said, his lighthearted tone
now a little forced. ‘Lots to see.’
We walked through the strawberry ﬁelds, where campers
were picking bushels of berries while a satyr played a tune
on a reed pipe.
Chiron told me the camp grew a nice crop for export to
New York restaurants and Mount Olympus. ‘It pays our
expenses,’ he explained. ‘And the strawberries take almost
no eﬀort.’
He said Mr D had this eﬀect on fruit-bearing plants: they
just went crazy when he was around. It worked best with
wine grapes, but Mr D was restricted from growing those, so
they grew strawberries instead.
I watched the satyr playing his pipe. His music was
causing lines of bugs to leave the strawberry patch in every
direction, like refugees ﬂeeing a ﬁre. I wondered if Grover
could work that kind of magic with music. I wondered if he
was still inside the farmhouse, being lectured by Mr D.
‘Grover won’t get in too much trouble, will he?’ I asked
Chiron. ‘I mean… he was a good protector. Really.’
Chiron sighed. He shed his tweed jacket and draped it
over his horse’s back like a saddle. ‘Grover has big dreams,
Percy. Perhaps bigger than are reasonable. To reach his goal,
he must ﬁrst demonstrate great courage by succeeding as a
keeper, ﬁnding a new camper and bringing him safely to
Half-Blood Hill.’
‘But he did that!’
‘I might agree with you,’ Chiron said. ‘But it is not my
place to judge. Dionysus and the Council of Cloven Elders
must decide. I’m afraid they might not see this assignment
as a success. After all, Grover lost you in New York. Then
there’s the unfortunate… ah… fate of your mother. And the
74
fact that Grover was unconscious when you dragged him
over the property line. The council might question whether
this shows any courage on Grover’s part.’
I wanted to protest. None of what had happened was
Grover’s fault. I also felt really, really guilty. If I hadn’t given
Grover the slip at the bus station, he might not have got in
trouble.
‘He’ll get a second chance, won’t he?’
Chiron winced. ‘I’m afraid that was Grover’s second
chance, Percy. The council was not anxious to give him
another, either, after what happened the ﬁrst time, ﬁve
years ago. Olympus knows, I advised him to wait longer
before trying again. He’s still so small for his age…’
‘How old is he?’
‘Oh, twenty-eight.’
‘What! And he’s in sixth grade?’
‘Satyrs mature half as fast as humans, Percy. Grover has
been the equivalent of a middle school student for the past
six years.’
‘That’s horrible.’
‘Quite,’ Chiron agreed. ‘At any rate, Grover is a late
bloomer, even by satyr standards, and not yet very
accomplished at woodland magic. Alas, he was anxious to
pursue his dream. Perhaps now he will ﬁnd some other
career…’
‘That’s not fair,’ I said. ‘What happened the ﬁrst time?
Was it really so bad?’
Chiron looked away quickly. ‘Let’s move along, shall we?’
But I wasn’t quite ready to let the subject drop. Something
had occurred to me when Chiron talked about my mother’s
fate, as if he were intentionally avoiding the word death.
The beginnings of an idea – a tiny, hopeful ﬁre – started
forming in my mind.
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘If the gods and Olympus and all that are
real…’
‘Yes, child?’
75
‘Does that mean the Underworld is real, too?’
Chiron’s expression darkened.
‘Yes, child.’ He paused, as if choosing his words carefully.
‘There is a place where spirits go after death. But for now…
until we know more… I would urge you to put that out of
your mind.’
‘What do you mean, “until we know more”?’
‘Come, Percy. Let’s see the woods.’
As we got closer, I realized how huge the forest was. It took
up at least a quarter of the valley, with trees so tall and
thick, you could imagine nobody had been in there since the
Native Americans.
Chiron said, ‘The woods are stocked, if you care to try
your luck, but go armed.’
‘Stocked with what?’ I asked. ‘Armed with what?’
‘You’ll see. Capture the ﬂag is Friday night. Do you have
your own sword and shield?’
‘My own –’
‘No,’ Chiron said. ‘I don’t suppose you do. I think a size
ﬁve will do. I’ll visit the armoury later.’
I wanted to ask what kind of summer camp had an
armoury, but there was too much else to think about, so the
tour continued. We saw the archery range, the canoeing
lake, the stables (which Chiron didn’t seem to like very
much), the javelin range, the sing-along amphitheatre, and
the arena where Chiron said they held sword and spear
ﬁghts.
‘Sword and spear ﬁghts?’ I asked.
‘Cabin challenges and all that,’ he explained. ‘Not lethal.
Usually. Oh, yes, and there’s the mess hall.’
Chiron pointed to an outdoor pavilion framed in white
Grecian columns on a hill overlooking the sea. There were a
dozen stone picnic tables. No roof. No walls.
‘What do you do when it rains?’ I asked.
76
Chiron looked at me as if I’d gone a little weird. ‘We still
have to eat, don’t we?’ I decided to drop the subject.
Finally, he showed me the cabins. There were twelve of
them, nestled in the woods by the lake. They were arranged
in a U, with two at the base and ﬁve in a row on either side.
And they were without doubt the most bizarre collection of
buildings I’d ever seen.
Except for the fact that each had a large brass number
above the door (odds on the left side, evens on the right),
they looked absolutely nothing alike. Number nine had
smokestacks like a tiny factory. Number four had tomato
vines on the walls and a roof made out of real grass. Seven
seemed to be made of solid gold, which gleamed so much in
the sunlight it was almost impossible to look at. They all
faced a commons area about the size of a soccer ﬁeld,
dotted with Greek statues, fountains, ﬂower beds, and a
couple of basketball hoops (which were more my speed).
In the centre of the ﬁeld was a huge stone-lined ﬁrepit.
Even though it was a warm afternoon, the hearth
smouldered. A girl about nine years old was tending the
ﬂames, poking the coals with a stick.
The pair of cabins at the head of the ﬁeld, numbers one
and two, looked like his-and-hers mausoleums, big white
marble boxes with heavy columns in front. Cabin one was
the biggest and bulkiest of the twelve. Its polished bronze
doors shimmered like a holograph, so that from diﬀerent
angles lightning bolts seemed to streak across them. Cabin
two was more graceful somehow, with slimmer columns
garlanded with pomegranates and ﬂowers. The walls were
carved with images of peacocks.
‘Zeus and Hera?’ I guessed.
‘Correct,’ Chiron said.
‘Their cabins look empty.’
‘Several of the cabins are. That’s true. No one ever stays
in one or two.’
77
Okay. So each cabin had a diﬀerent god, like a mascot.
Twelve cabins for the twelve Olympians. But why would
some be empty?
I stopped in front of the ﬁrst cabin on the left, cabin three.
It wasn’t high and mighty like cabin one, but long and low
and solid. The outer walls were of rough grey stone studded
with pieces of seashell and coral, as if the slabs had been
hewn straight from the bottom of the ocean ﬂoor. I peeked
inside the open doorway and Chiron said, ‘Oh, I wouldn’t do
that!’
Before he could pull me back, I caught the salty scent of
the interior, like the wind on the shore at Montauk. The
interior walls glowed like abalone. There were six empty
bunk beds with silk sheets turned down. But there was no
sign anyone had ever slept there. The place felt so sad and
lonely, I was glad when Chiron put his hand on my shoulder
and said, ‘Come along, Percy.’
Most of the other cabins were crowded with campers.
Number ﬁve was bright red – a real nasty paint job, as if
the colour had been splashed on with buckets and ﬁsts. The
roof was lined with barbed wire. A stuﬀed wild boar’s head
hung over the doorway, and its eyes seemed to follow me.
Inside I could see a bunch of mean-looking kids, both girls
and boys, arm wrestling and arguing with each other while
rock music blared. The loudest was a girl maybe thirteen or
fourteen. She wore a size XXXL Camp Half-Blood T-shirt
under a camouﬂage jacket. She zeroed in on me and gave
me an evil sneer. She reminded me of Nancy Boboﬁt,
though the camper girl was much bigger and tougher
looking, and her hair was long and stringy, and brown
instead of red.
I kept walking, trying to stay clear of Chiron’s hooves. ‘We
haven’t seen any other centaurs,’ I observed.
‘No,’ said Chiron sadly. ‘My kinsmen are a wild and
barbaric folk, I’m afraid. You might encounter them in the
78
wilderness, or at major sporting events. But you won’t see
any here.’
‘You said your name was Chiron. Are you really…’
He smiled down at me. ‘The Chiron from the stories?
Trainer of Hercules and all that? Yes, Percy, I am.’
‘But, shouldn’t you be dead?’
Chiron paused, as if the question intrigued him. ‘I honestly
don’t know about should be. The truth is, I can’t be dead.
You see, aeons ago the gods granted my wish. I could
continue the work I loved. I could be a teacher of heroes as
long as humanity needed me. I gained much from that
wish… and I gave up much. But I’m still here, so I can only
assume I’m still needed.’
I thought about being a teacher for three thousand years.
It wouldn’t have made my Top Ten Things to Wish For list.
‘Doesn’t it ever get boring?’
‘No, no,’ he said. ‘Horribly depressing, at times, but never
boring.’
‘Why depressing?’
Chiron seemed to turn hard of hearing again.
‘Oh, look,’ he said. ‘Annabeth is waiting for us.’
* * *
 
The blonde girl I’d met at the Big House was reading a book
in front of the last cabin on the left, number eleven.
When we reached her, she looked me over critically, like
she was still thinking about how much I drooled.
I tried to see what she was reading, but I couldn’t make
out the title. I thought my dyslexia was acting up. Then I
realized the title wasn’t even English. The letters looked
Greek to me. I mean, literally Greek. There were pictures of
temples and statues and diﬀerent kinds of columns, like
those in an architecture book.
79
‘Annabeth,’ Chiron said, ‘I have masters’ archery class at
noon. Would you take Percy from here?’
‘Yes, sir.’
‘Cabin eleven,’ Chiron told me, gesturing towards the
doorway. ‘Make yourself at home.’
Out of all the cabins, eleven looked the most like a regular
old summer camp cabin, with the emphasis on old. The
threshold was worn down, the brown paint peeling. Over the
doorway was one of those doctor’s symbols, a winged pole
with two snakes wrapped around it. What did they call it…?
A caduceus.
Inside, it was packed with people, both boys and girls, way
more than the number of bunk beds. Sleeping bags were
spread all over on the ﬂoor. It looked like a gym where the
Red Cross had set up an evacuation centre.
Chiron didn’t go in. The door was too low for him. But
when the campers saw him they all stood and bowed
respectfully.
‘Well, then,’ Chiron said. ‘Good luck, Percy. I‘ll see you at
dinner.’
He galloped away towards the archery range.
I stood in the doorway, looking at the kids. They weren’t
bowing any more. They were staring at me, sizing me up. I
knew this routine. I’d gone through it at enough schools.
‘Well?’ Annabeth prompted. ‘Go on.’
So naturally I tripped coming in the door and made a total
fool of myself. There were some snickers from the campers,
but none of them said anything.
Annabeth announced, ‘Percy Jackson, meet cabin eleven.’
‘Regular or undetermined?’ somebody asked.
I 
didn’t 
know 
what 
to 
say, 
but 
Annabeth 
said,
‘Undetermined.’
Everybody groaned.
A guy who was a little older than the rest came forward.
‘Now, now, campers. That’s what we’re here for. Welcome,
Percy. You can have that spot on the ﬂoor, right over there.’
80
The guy was about nineteen, and he looked pretty cool.
He was tall and muscular, with short-cropped sandy hair and
a friendly smile. He wore an orange tank top, cutoﬀs,
sandals and a leather necklace with ﬁve diﬀerent-coloured
clay beads. The only thing unsettling about his appearance
was a thick white scar that ran from just beneath his right
eye to his jaw, like an old knife slash.
‘This is Luke,’ Annabeth said, and her voice sounded
diﬀerent somehow. I glanced over and could’ve sworn she
was blushing. She saw me looking, and her expression
hardened again. ‘He’s your counsellor for now.’
‘For now?’ I asked.
‘You’re undetermined,’ Luke explained patiently. ‘They
don’t know what cabin to put you in, so you’re here. Cabin
eleven takes all newcomers, all visitors. Naturally, we would.
Hermes, our patron, is the god of travellers.’
I looked at the tiny section of ﬂoor they’d given me. I had
nothing to put there to mark it as my own, no luggage, no
clothes, no sleeping bag. Just the Minotaur’s horn. I thought
about setting that down, but then I remembered that
Hermes was also the god of thieves.
I looked around at the campers’ faces, some sullen and
suspicious, some grinning stupidly, some eyeing me as if
they were waiting for a chance to pick my pockets.
‘How long will I be here?’ I asked.
‘Good question,’ Luke said. ‘Until you’re determined.’
‘How long will that take?’
The campers all laughed.
‘Come on,’ Annabeth told me. ‘I’ll show you the volleyball
court.’
‘I’ve already seen it.’
‘Come on.’
She grabbed my wrist and dragged me outside. I could
hear the kids of cabin eleven laughing behind me.
81
When we were a few metres away, Annabeth said, ‘Jackson,
you have to do better than that.’
‘What?’
She rolled her eyes and mumbled under her breath, ‘I
can’t believe I thought you were the one.’
‘What’s your problem?’ I was getting angry now. ‘All I
know is, I kill some bull guy –’
‘Don’t talk like that!’ Annabeth told me. ‘You know how
many kids at this camp wish they’d had your chance?’
‘To get killed?’
‘To ﬁght the Minotaur! What do you think we train for?’
I shook my head. ‘Look, if the thing I fought really was the
Minotaur, the same one in the stories…’
‘Yes.’
‘Then there’s only one.’
‘Yes.’
‘And he died, like, a gajillion years ago, right? Theseus
killed him in the labyrinth. So…’
‘Monsters don’t die, Percy. They can be killed. But they
don’t die.’
‘Oh, thanks. That clears it up.’
‘They don’t have souls, like you and me. You can dispel
them for a while, maybe even for a whole lifetime if you’re
lucky. But they are primal forces. Chiron calls them
archetypes. Eventually, they re-form.’
I thought about Mrs Dodds. ‘You mean if I killed one,
accidentally, with a sword –’
‘The Fu… I mean, your maths teacher. That’s right. She’s
still out there. You just made her very, very mad.’
‘How did you know about Mrs Dodds?’
‘You talk in your sleep.’
‘You almost called her something. A Fury? They’re Hades’
torturers, right?’
Annabeth glanced nervously at the ground, as if she
expected it to open up and swallow her. ‘You shouldn’t call
82
them by name, even here. We call them the Kindly Ones, if
we have to speak of them at all.’
‘Look, is there anything we can say without it thundering?’
I sounded whiny, even to myself, but right then I didn’t care.
‘Why do I have to stay in cabin eleven, anyway? Why is
everybody so crowded together? There are plenty of empty
bunks right over there.’
I pointed to the ﬁrst few cabins, and Annabeth turned
pale. ‘You don’t just choose a cabin, Percy. It depends on
who your parents are. Or… your parent.’
She stared at me, waiting for me to get it.
‘My mom is Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘She works at the candy
store in Grand Central Station. At least, she used to.’
‘I’m sorry about your mom, Percy. But that’s not what I
mean. I’m talking about your other parent. Your dad.’
‘He’s dead. I never knew him.’
Annabeth sighed. Clearly, she’d had this conversation
before with other kids. ‘Your father’s not dead, Percy.’
‘How can you say that? You know him?’
‘No, of course not.’
‘Then how can you say –’
‘Because I know you. You wouldn’t be here if you weren’t
one of us.’
‘You don’t know anything about me.’
‘No?’ She raised an eyebrow. ‘I bet you moved around
from school to school. I bet you were kicked out of a lot of
them.’
‘How –’
‘Diagnosed with dyslexia. Probably ADHD, too.’
I tried to swallow my embarrassment. ‘What does that
have to do with anything?’
‘Taken together, it’s almost a sure sign. The letters ﬂoat
oﬀ the page when you read, right? That’s because your
mind is hardwired for ancient Greek. And the ADHD – you’re
impulsive, can’t sit still in the classroom. That’s your
battleﬁeld reﬂexes. In a real ﬁght, they’d keep you alive. As
83
for the attention problems, that’s because you see too
much, Percy, not too little. Your senses are better than a
regular mortal’s. Of course the teachers want you
medicated. Most of them are monsters. They don’t want you
seeing them for what they are.’
‘You sound like… you went through the same thing?’
‘Most of the kids here did. If you weren’t like us, you
couldn’t have survived the Minotaur, much less the
ambrosia and nectar.’
‘Ambrosia and nectar.’
‘The food and drink we were giving you to make you
better. That stuﬀ would’ve killed a normal kid. It would’ve
turned your blood to ﬁre and your bones to sand and you’d
be dead. Face it. You’re a half-blood.’
A half-blood.
I was reeling with so many questions I didn’t know where
to start.
Then a husky voice yelled, ‘Well! A newbie!’
I looked over. The big girl from the ugly red cabin was
sauntering towards us. She had three other girls behind her,
all big and ugly and mean-looking like her, all wearing camo
jackets.
‘Clarisse,’ Annabeth sighed. ‘Why don’t you go polish your
spear or something?’
‘Sure, Miss Princess,’ the big girl said. ‘So I can run you
through with it Friday night.’
‘Errete es korakas,’ Annabeth said, which I somehow
understood was Greek for “Go to the crows”, though I had a
feeling it was a worse curse than it sounded. ‘You don’t
stand a chance.’
‘We’ll pulverize you,’ Clarisse said, but her eye twitched.
Perhaps she wasn’t sure she could follow through on the
threat. She turned towards me. ‘Who’s this little runt?’
‘Percy Jackson,’ Annabeth said, ‘meet Clarisse, Daughter
of Ares.’
I blinked. ‘Like… the war god?’
84
Clarisse sneered. ‘You got a problem with that?’
‘No,’ I said, recovering my wits. ‘It explains the bad smell.’
Clarisse growled. ‘We got an initiation ceremony for
newbies, Prissy.’
‘Percy.’
‘Whatever. Come on, I’ll show you.’
‘Clarisse –’ Annabeth tried to say.
‘Stay out of it, wise girl.’
Annabeth looked pained, but she did stay out of it, and I
didn’t really want her help. I was the new kid. I had to earn
my own rep.
I handed Annabeth my Minotaur horn and got ready to
ﬁght, but before I knew it, Clarisse had me by the neck and
was dragging me towards a cinder-block building that I knew
immediately was the bathroom.
I was kicking and punching. I’d been in plenty of ﬁghts
before, but this big girl Clarisse had hands like iron. She
dragged me into the girls’ bathroom. There was a line of
toilets on one side and a line of shower stalls down the
other. It smelled just like any public bathroom, and I was
thinking – as much as I could think with Clarisse ripping my
hair out – that if this place belonged to the gods, they
should’ve been able to aﬀord classier toilets.
Clarisse’s friends were all laughing, and I was trying to
ﬁnd the strength I’d used to ﬁght the Minotaur, but it just
wasn’t there.
‘Like he’s “Big Three” material,’ Clarisse said as she
pushed me towards one of the toilets. ‘Yeah, right. Minotaur
probably fell over laughing, he was so stupid-looking.’
Her friends snickered.
Annabeth stood in the corner, watching through her
ﬁngers.
Clarisse bent me over on my knees and started pushing
my head towards the toilet bowl. It reeked like rusted pipes
and, well, like what goes into toilets. I strained to keep my
85
head up. I was looking at the scummy water thinking, I will
not go into that. I won’t.
Then something happened. I felt a tug in the pit of my
stomach. I heard the plumbing rumble, the pipes shudder.
Clarisse’s grip on my hair loosened. Water shot out of the
toilet, making an arc straight over my head, and the next
thing I knew, I was sprawled on the bathroom tiles with
Clarisse screaming behind me.
I turned just as water blasted out of the toilet again,
hitting Clarisse straight in the face so hard it pushed her
down onto her butt. The water stayed on her like the spray
from a ﬁre hose, pushing her backwards into a shower stall.
She struggled, gasping, and her friends started coming
towards her. But then the other toilets exploded, too, and
six more streams of toilet water blasted them back. The
showers acted up, too, and together all the ﬁxtures sprayed
the camouﬂage girls right out of the bathroom, spinning
them around like pieces of garbage being washed away.
As soon as they were out the door, I felt the tug in my gut
lessen, and the water shut oﬀ as quickly as it had started.
The entire bathroom was ﬂooded. Annabeth hadn’t been
spared. She was dripping wet, but she hadn’t been pushed
out the door. She was standing in exactly the same place,
staring at me in shock.
I looked down and realized I was sitting in the only dry
spot in the whole room. There was a circle of dry ﬂoor
around me. I didn’t have one drop of water on my clothes.
Nothing.
I stood up, my legs shaky.
Annabeth said, ‘How did you…’
‘I don’t know.’
We walked to the door. Outside, Clarisse and her friends
were sprawled in the mud, and a bunch of other campers
had gathered around to gawk. Clarisse’s hair was ﬂattened
across her face. Her camouﬂage jacket was sopping and she
86
smelled like sewage. She gave me a look of absolute hatred.
‘You are dead, new boy. You are totally dead.’
I probably should have let it go, but I said, ‘You want to
gargle with toilet water again, Clarisse? Close your mouth.’
Her friends had to hold her back. They dragged her
towards cabin ﬁve, while the other campers made way to
avoid her ﬂailing feet.
Annabeth stared at me. I couldn’t tell whether she was
just grossed out or angry at me for dousing her.
‘What?’ I demanded. ‘What are you thinking?’
‘I’m thinking,’ she said, ‘that I want you on my team for
capture the ﬂag.’
87
7    My Dinner Goes Up in Smoke
 
Word of the bathroom incident spread immediately.
Wherever I went, campers pointed at me and murmured
something about toilet water. Or maybe they were just
staring at Annabeth, who was still pretty much dripping wet.
She showed me a few more places: the metal shop (where
kids were forging their own swords), the arts-and-crafts
room (where satyrs were sandblasting a giant marble statue
of a goat-man), and the climbing wall, which actually
consisted of two facing walls that shook violently, dropped
boulders, sprayed lava and clashed together if you didn’t
get to the top fast enough.
Finally we returned to the canoeing lake, where the trail
led back to the cabins.
‘I’ve got training to do,’ Annabeth said ﬂatly. ‘Dinner’s at
seven thirty. Just follow your cabin to the mess hall.’
‘Annabeth, I’m sorry about the toilets.’
‘Whatever.’
‘It wasn’t my fault.’
She looked at me sceptically, and I realized it was my
fault. I’d made water shoot out of the bathroom ﬁxtures. I
didn’t understand how. But the toilets had responded to me.
I had become one with the plumbing.
‘You need to talk to the Oracle,’ Annabeth said.
‘Who?’
‘Not who. What. The Oracle. I’ll ask Chiron.’
I stared into the lake, wishing somebody would give me a
straight answer for once.
88
I wasn’t expecting anybody to be looking back at me from
the bottom, so my heart skipped a beat when I noticed two
teenage girls sitting cross-legged at the base of the pier,
about ﬁve metres below. They wore blue jeans and
shimmering green T-shirts, and their brown hair ﬂoated
loose around their shoulders as minnows darted in and out.
They smiled and waved as if I were a long-lost friend.
I didn’t know what else to do. I waved back.
‘Don’t encourage them,’ Annabeth warned. ‘Naiads are
terrible ﬂirts.’
‘Naiads,’ I repeated, feeling completely overwhelmed.
‘That’s it. I want to go home now.’
Annabeth frowned. ‘Don’t you get it, Percy? You are home.
This is the only safe place on earth for kids like us.’
‘You mean, mentally disturbed kids?’
‘I mean not human. Not totally human, anyway. Half-
human.’
‘Half-human and half-what?’
‘I think you know.’
I didn’t want to admit it, but I was afraid I did. I felt a
tingling in my limbs, a sensation I sometimes felt when my
mom talked about my dad.
‘God,’ I said. ‘Half-god.’
Annabeth nodded. ‘Your father isn’t dead. Percy. He’s one
of the Olympians.’
‘That’s… crazy.’
‘Is it? What’s the most common thing gods did in the old
stories? They ran around falling in love with humans and
having kids with them. Do you think they’ve changed their
habits in the last few millennia?’
‘But those are just –’ I almost said myths again. Then I
remembered Chiron’s warning that in two thousand years, I
might be considered a myth. ‘But if all the kids here are half-
gods –’
‘Demigods,’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s the oﬃcial term. Or
half-bloods.’
89
‘Then who’s your dad?’
Her hands tightened around the pier railing. I got the
feeling I’d just trespassed on a sensitive subject.
‘My dad is a professor at West Point,’ she said. ‘I haven’t
seen him since I was very small. He teaches American
history.’
‘He’s human.’
‘What? You assume it has to be a male god who ﬁnds a
human female attractive? How sexist is that?’
‘Who’s your mom, then?’
‘Cabin six.’
‘Meaning?’
Annabeth straightened. ‘Athena. Goddess of wisdom and
battle.’
Okay, I thought. Why not?
‘And my dad?’
‘Undetermined,’ Annabeth said, ‘like I told you before.
Nobody knows.’
‘Except my mother. She knew.’
‘Maybe not, Percy. Gods don’t always reveal their
identities.’
‘My dad would have. He loved her.’
Annabeth gave me a cautious look. She didn’t want to
burst my bubble. ‘Maybe you’re right. Maybe he’ll send a
sign. That’s the only way to know for sure: your father has
to send you a sign claiming you as his son. Sometimes it
happens.’
‘You mean sometimes it doesn’t?’
Annabeth ran her palm along the rail. ‘The gods are busy.
They have a lot of kids and they don’t always… Well,
sometimes they don’t care about us, Percy. They ignore us.’
I thought about some of the kids I’d seen in the Hermes
cabin, teenagers who looked sullen and depressed, as if
they were waiting for a call that would never come. I’d
known kids like that at Yancy Academy, shuﬄed oﬀ to
90
boarding school by rich parents who didn’t have the time to
deal with them. But gods should behave better.
‘So I’m stuck here,’ I said. ‘That’s it? For the rest of my
life?’
‘It depends,’ Annabeth said. ‘Some campers only stay the
summer. If you’re a child of Aphrodite or Demeter, you’re
probably not a real powerful force. The monsters might
ignore you, so you can get by with a few months of summer
training and live in the mortal world the rest of the year. But
for some of us, it’s too dangerous to leave. We’re year-
rounders. In the mortal world, we attract monsters. They
sense us. They come to challenge us. Most of the time,
they’ll ignore us until we’re old enough to cause trouble –
about ten or eleven years old – but after that most
demigods either make their way here, or they get killed oﬀ.
A few manage to survive in the outside world and become
famous. Believe me, if I told you the names, you’d know
them. Some don’t even realize they’re demigods. But very,
very few are like that.’
‘So monsters can’t get in here?’
Annabeth 
shook 
her 
head. 
‘Not 
unless 
they’re
intentionally stocked in the woods or specially summoned
by somebody on the inside.’
‘Why would anybody want to summon a monster?’
‘Practice ﬁghts. Practical jokes.’
‘Practical jokes?’
‘The point is, the borders are sealed to keep mortals and
monsters out. From the outside, mortals look into the valley
and see nothing unusual, just a strawberry farm.’
‘So… you’re a year-rounder?’
Annabeth nodded. From under the collar of her T-shirt she
pulled a leather necklace with ﬁve clay beads of diﬀerent
colours. It was just like Luke’s, except Annabeth’s also had a
big gold ring strung on it, like a college ring.
‘I’ve been here since I was seven,’ she said. ‘Every
August, on the last day of summer session, you get a bead
91
for surviving another year. I’ve been here longer than most
of the counsellors, and they’re all in college.’
‘Why did you come so young?’
She twisted the ring on her necklace. ‘None of your
business.’
‘Oh.’ I stood there for a minute in uncomfortable silence.
‘So… I could just walk out of here right now if I wanted to?’
‘It would be suicide, but you could, with Mr D’s or Chiron’s
permission. But they wouldn’t give permission until the end
of the summer session unless…’
‘Unless?’
‘You were granted a quest. But that hardly ever happens.
The last time...’
Her voice trailed oﬀ. I could tell from her tone that the last
time hadn’t gone well.
‘Back in the sick room,’ I said, ‘when you were feeding me
that stuﬀ –’
‘Ambrosia.’
‘Yeah. You asked me something about the summer
solstice.’
Annabeth’s 
shoulders 
tensed. 
‘So 
you 
do 
know
something?’
‘Well… no. Back at my old school, I overheard Grover and
Chiron talking about it. Grover mentioned the summer
solstice. He said something like we didn’t have much time,
because of the deadline. What did that mean?’
She clenched her ﬁsts. ‘I wish I knew. Chiron and the
satyrs, they know, but they won’t tell me. Something is
wrong in Olympus, something pretty major. Last time I was
there, everything seemed so normal.’
‘You’ve been to Olympus?’
‘Some of us year-rounders – Luke and Clarisse and I and a
few others – we took a ﬁeld trip during winter solstice.
That’s when the gods have their big annual council.’
‘But… how did you get there?’
92
‘The Long Island Railroad, of course. You get oﬀ at Penn
Station. Empire State Building, special elevator to the six-
hundredth ﬂoor.’ She looked at me like she was sure I must
know this already. ‘You are a New Yorker, right?’
‘Oh, sure.’ As far as I knew, there were only a hundred and
two ﬂoors in the Empire State Building, but I decided not to
point that out.
‘Right after we visited,’ Annabeth continued, ‘the weather
got weird, as if the gods had started ﬁghting. A couple of
times since, I’ve overheard satyrs talking. The best I can
ﬁgure out is that something important was stolen. And if it
isn’t returned by summer solstice, there’s going to be
trouble. When you came, I was hoping… I mean – Athena
can get along with just about anybody, except for Ares. And
of course she’s got the rivalry with Poseidon. But, I mean,
aside from that, I thought we could work together. I thought
you might know something.’
I shook my head. I wished I could help her, but I felt too
hungry and tired and mentally overloaded to ask any more
questions.
‘I’ve got to get a quest,’ Annabeth muttered to herself.
‘I’m not too young. If they would just tell me the problem…’
I could smell barbecue smoke coming from somewhere
nearby. Annabeth must’ve heard my stomach growl. She
told me to go on, she’d catch me later. I left her on the pier,
tracing her ﬁnger across the rail as if drawing a battle plan.
Back at cabin eleven, everybody was talking and horsing
around, waiting for dinner. For the ﬁrst time, I noticed that a
lot of the campers had similar features: sharp noses,
upturned eyebrows, mischievous smiles. They were the kind
of kids that teachers would peg as troublemakers.
Thankfully, nobody paid much attention to me as I walked
over to my spot on the ﬂoor and plopped down with my
Minotaur horn.
93
The counsellor, Luke, came over. He had the Hermes
family resemblance, too. It was marred by that scar on his
right cheek, but his smile was intact.
‘Found you a sleeping bag,’ he said. ‘And here, I stole you
some toiletries from the camp store.’
I couldn’t tell if he was kidding about the stealing part.
I said, ‘Thanks.’
‘No prob.’ Luke sat next to me, pushed his back against
the wall. ‘Tough ﬁrst day?’
‘I don’t belong here,’ I said. ‘I don’t even believe in gods.’
‘Yeah,’ he said. ‘That’s how we all started. Once you start
believing in them? It doesn’t get any easier.’
The bitterness in his voice surprised me, because Luke
seemed like a pretty easygoing guy. He looked like he could
handle just about anything.
‘So your dad is Hermes?’ I asked.
He pulled a switchblade out of his back pocket, and for a
second I thought he was going to gut me, but he just
scraped the mud oﬀ the sole of his sandal. ‘Yeah. Hermes.’
‘The wing-footed messenger guy.’
‘That’s him. Messengers. Medicine. Travellers, merchants,
thieves. Anybody who uses the roads. That’s why you’re
here, enjoying cabin eleven’s hospitality. Hermes isn’t picky
about who he sponsors.’
I ﬁgured Luke didn’t mean to call me a nobody. He just
had a lot on his mind.
‘You ever meet your dad?’ I asked.
‘Once.’
I waited, thinking that if he wanted to tell me, he’d tell
me. Apparently, he didn’t. I wondered if the story had
anything to do with how he got his scar.
Luke looked up and managed a smile. ‘Don’t worry about
it, Percy. The campers here, they’re mostly good people.
After all, we’re extended family, right? We take care of each
other.’
94
He seemed to understand how lost I felt, and I was
grateful for that, because an older guy like him – even if he
was a counsellor – should’ve steered clear of an uncool
middle-schooler like me. But Luke had welcomed me into
the cabin. He’d even stolen me some toiletries, which was
the nicest thing anybody had done for me all day.
I decided to ask him my last big question, the one that
had been bothering me all afternoon. ‘Clarisse, from Ares,
was joking about me being “Big Three” material. Then
Annabeth… twice, she said I might be “the one”. She said I
should talk to the Oracle. What was that all about?’
Luke folded his knife. ‘I hate prophecies.’
‘What do you mean?’
His face twitched around the scar. ‘Let’s just say I messed
things up for everybody else. The last two years, ever since
my trip to the Garden of the Hesperides went sour, Chiron
hasn’t allowed any more quests. Annabeth’s been dying to
get out into the world. She pestered Chiron so much he
ﬁnally told her he already knew her fate. He’d had a
prophecy from the Oracle. He wouldn’t tell her the whole
thing, but he said Annabeth wasn’t destined to go on a
quest yet. She had to wait until… somebody special came to
the camp.’
‘Somebody special.’
‘Don’t worry about it, kid,’ Luke said. ‘Annabeth wants to
think every new camper who comes through here is the
omen she’s been waiting for. Now, come on, it’s dinnertime.’
The moment he said it, a horn blew in the distance.
Somehow, I knew it was a conch shell, even though I’d
never heard one before.
Luke yelled, ‘Eleven, fall in!’
The whole cabin, about twenty of us, ﬁled into the
commons yard. We lined up in order of seniority, so of
course I was dead last. Campers came from the other
cabins, too, except for the three empty cabins at the end,
95
and cabin eight, which had looked normal in the daytime,
but was now starting to glow silver as the sun went down.
We marched up the hill to the mess hall pavilion. Satyrs
joined us from the meadow. Naiads emerged from the
canoeing lake. A few other girls came out of the woods –
and when I say out of the woods, I mean straight out of the
woods. I saw one girl, about nine or ten years old, melt from
the side of a maple tree and come skipping up the hill.
In all, there were maybe a hundred campers, a few dozen
satyrs, and a dozen assorted wood nymphs and naiads.
At the pavilion, torches blazed around the marble
columns. A central ﬁre burned in a bronze brazier the size of
a bathtub. Each cabin had its own table, covered in white
cloth trimmed in purple. Four of the tables were empty, but
cabin eleven’s was way overcrowded. I had to squeeze on to
the edge of a bench with half my butt hanging oﬀ.
I saw Grover sitting at table twelve with Mr D, a few satyrs
and a couple of plump blond boys who looked just like Mr D.
Chiron stood to one side, the picnic table being way too
small for a centaur.
Annabeth sat at table six with a bunch of serious-looking
athletic kids, all with her grey eyes and honey-blonde hair.
Clarisse sat behind me at Ares’s table. She’d apparently
gotten over being hosed down, because she was laughing
and belching right alongside her friends.
Finally, Chiron pounded his hoof against the marble ﬂoor
of the pavilion, and everybody fell silent. He raised a glass.
‘To the gods!’
Everybody else raised their glasses. ‘To the gods!’
Wood nymphs came forward with platters of food: grapes,
apples, 
strawberries, 
cheese, 
fresh 
bread 
and 
yes,
barbecue! My glass was empty, but Luke said, ‘Speak to it.
Whatever you want – non-alcoholic, of course.’
I said, ‘Cherry Coke.’
The glass ﬁlled with sparkling caramel liquid.
Then I had an idea. ‘Blue Cherry Coke.’
96
The soda turned a violent shade of cobalt.
I took a cautious sip. Perfect.
I drank a toast to my mother.
She’s not gone, I told myself. Not permanently, anyway.
She’s in the Underworld. And if that’s a real place, then
some day…
‘Here you go, Percy,’ Luke said, handing me a platter of
smoked brisket.
I loaded my plate and was about to take a big bite when I
noticed everybody getting up, carrying their plates towards
the ﬁre in the centre of the pavilion. I wondered if they were
going for dessert or something.
‘Come on,’ Luke told me.
As I got closer, I saw that everyone was taking a portion of
their meal and dropping it into the ﬁre, the ripest
strawberry, the juiciest slice of beef, the warmest, most
buttery roll.
Luke murmured in my ear, ‘Burnt oﬀerings for the gods.
They like the smell.’
‘You’re kidding.’
His look warned me not to take this lightly, but I couldn’t
help wondering why an immortal, all-powerful being would
like the smell of burning food.
Luke approached the ﬁre, bowed his head, and tossed in a
cluster of fat red grapes. ‘Hermes.’
I was next.
I wished I knew what god’s name to say.
Finally, I made a silent plea. Whoever you are, tell me.
Please.
I scraped a big slice of brisket into the ﬂames.
When I caught a whiﬀ of the smoke, I didn’t gag.
It smelled nothing like burning food. It smelled of hot
chocolate and fresh-baked brownies, hamburgers on the grill
and wildﬂowers, and a hundred other good things that
shouldn’t have gone well together, but did. I could almost
believe the gods could live oﬀ that smoke.
97
When everybody had returned to their seats and ﬁnished
eating their meals, Chiron pounded his hoof again for our
attention.
Mr D got up with a huge sigh. ‘Yes, I suppose I’d better say
hello to all you brats. Well, hello. Our activities director,
Chiron, says the next capture the ﬂag is Friday. Cabin ﬁve
presently holds the laurels.’
A bunch of ugly cheering rose from the Ares table.
‘Personally,’ Mr D continued, ‘I couldn’t care less, but
congratulations. Also, I should tell you that we have a new
camper today. Peter Johnson.’
Chiron murmured something.
‘Er, Percy Jackson,’ Mr D corrected. ‘That’s right. Hurrah,
and all that. Now run along to your silly campﬁre. Go on.’
Everybody cheered. We all headed down towards the
amphitheatre, where Apollo’s cabin led a sing-along. We
sang camp songs about the gods and ate toasted
marshmallows and joked around, and the funny thing was, I
didn’t feel that anyone was staring at me any more. I felt
that I was home.
Later in the evening, when the sparks from the campﬁre
were curling into a starry sky, the conch horn blew again,
and we all ﬁled back to our cabins. I didn’t realize how
exhausted I was until I collapsed on my borrowed sleeping
bag.
My ﬁngers curled around the Minotaur horn. I thought
about my mom, but I had good thoughts: her smile, the
bedtime stories she would read me when I was a kid, the
way she would tell me not to let the bedbugs bite.
When I closed my eyes, I fell asleep instantly.
That was my ﬁrst day at Camp Half-Blood.
I wish I’d known how brieﬂy I would get to enjoy my new
home.
98
8    We Capture a Flag
 
The next few days I settled into a routine that felt almost
normal, if you don’t count the fact that I was getting lessons
from satyrs, nymphs and a centaur.
Each morning I took Ancient Greek from Annabeth, and we
talked about the gods and goddesses in the present tense,
which was kind of weird. I discovered Annabeth was right
about my dyslexia: Ancient Greek wasn’t that hard for me to
read. At least, no harder than English. After a couple of
mornings, I could stumble through a few lines of Homer
without too much headache.
The rest of the day, I’d rotate through outdoor activities,
looking for something I was good at. Chiron tried to teach
me archery, but we found out pretty quick I wasn’t any good
with a bow and arrow. He didn’t complain, even when he
had to desnag a stray arrow out of his tail.
Foot racing? No good either. The wood-nymph instructors
left me in the dust. They told me not to worry about it.
They’d had centuries of practice running away from lovesick
gods. But still, it was a little humiliating to be slower than a
tree.
And wrestling? Forget it. Every time I got on the mat,
Clarisse would pulverize me.
‘There’s more where that came from, punk,’ she’d
mumble in my ear.
The only thing I really excelled at was canoeing, and that
wasn’t the kind of heroic skill people expected to see from
the kid who had beaten the Minotaur.
99
I knew the senior campers and counsellors were watching
me, trying to decide who my dad was, but they weren’t
having an easy time of it. I wasn’t as strong as the Ares
kids, or as good at archery as the Apollo kids. I didn’t have
Hephaestus’s skill with metalwork or – gods forbid –
Dionysus’s way with vine plants. Luke told me I might be a
child of Hermes, a kind of jack-of-all-trades, master of none.
But I got the feeling he was just trying to make me feel
better. He really didn’t know what to make of me either.
Despite all that, I liked camp. I got used to the morning
fog over the beach, the smell of hot strawberry ﬁelds in the
afternoon, even the weird noises of monsters in the woods
at night. I would eat dinner with cabin eleven, scrape part of
my meal into the ﬁre, and try to feel some connection to my
real dad. Nothing came. Just that warm feeling I’d always
had, like the memory of his smile. I tried not to think too
much about my mom, but I kept wondering: if gods and
monsters were real, if all this magical stuﬀ was possible,
surely there was some way to save her, to bring her back…
I started to understand Luke’s bitterness and how he
seemed to resent his father, Hermes. So okay, maybe gods
had important things to do. But couldn’t they call once in a
while, or thunder, or something? Dionysus could make Diet
Coke appear out of thin air. Why couldn’t my dad, whoever
he was, make a phone appear?
Thursday afternoon, three days after I’d arrived at Camp
Half-Blood, I had my ﬁrst sword-ﬁghting lesson. Everybody
from cabin eleven gathered in the big circular arena, where
Luke would be our instructor.
We started with basic stabbing and slashing, using some
straw-stuﬀed dummies in Greek armour. I guess I did okay.
At least, I understood what I was supposed to do and my
reﬂexes were good.
The problem was, I couldn’t ﬁnd a blade that felt right in
my hands. Either they were too heavy, or too light, or too
100
long. Luke tried his best to ﬁx me up, but he agreed that
none of the practice blades seemed to work for me.
We moved on to duelling in pairs. Luke announced he
would be my partner, since this was my ﬁrst time.
‘Good luck,’ one of the campers told me. ‘Luke’s the best
swordsman in the last three hundred years.’
‘Maybe he’ll go easy on me,’ I said.
The camper snorted.
Luke showed me thrusts and parries and shield blocks the
hard way. With every swipe, I got a little more battered and
bruised. ‘Keep your guard up, Percy,’ he’d say, then whap
me in the ribs with the ﬂat of his blade. ‘No, not that far up!’
Whap! ‘Lunge!’ Whap!‘Now, back!’ Whap!
By the time he called a break, I was soaked in sweat.
Everybody swarmed the drinks cooler. Luke poured ice
water on his head, which looked like such a good idea, I did
the same.
Instantly, I felt better. Strength surged back into my arms.
The sword didn’t feel so awkward.
‘Okay, everybody circle up!’ Luke ordered. ‘If Percy
doesn’t mind, I want to give you a little demo.’
Great, I thought. Let’s all watch Percy get pounded.
The 
Hermes 
guys 
gathered 
around. 
They 
were
suppressing smiles. I ﬁgured they’d been in my shoes before
and couldn’t wait to see how Luke used me for a punching
bag. He told everybody he was going to demonstrate a
disarming technique: how to twist the enemy’s blade with
the ﬂat of your own sword so that he had no choice but to
drop his weapon.
‘This is diﬃcult,’ he stressed. ‘I’ve had it used against me.
No laughing at Percy, now. Most swordsmen have to work
years to master this technique.’
He demonstrated the move on me in slow motion. Sure
enough, the sword clattered out of my hand.
‘Now in real time,’ he said, after I’d retrieved my weapon.
‘We keep sparring until one of us pulls it oﬀ. Ready, Percy?’
101
I nodded, and Luke came after me. Somehow, I kept him
from getting a shot at the hilt of my sword. My senses
opened up. I saw his attacks coming. I countered. I stepped
forward and tried a thrust of my own. Luke deﬂected it
easily, but I saw a change in his face. His eyes narrowed,
and he started to press me with more force.
The sword grew heavy in my hand. The balance wasn’t
right. I knew it was only a matter of seconds before Luke
took me down, so I ﬁgured, What the heck?
I tried the disarming manoeuvre.
My blade hit the base of Luke’s and I twisted, putting my
whole weight into a downward thrust.
Clang.
Luke’s sword rattled against the stones. The tip of my
blade was a couple of centimetres from his undefended
chest.
The other campers were silent.
I lowered my sword. ‘Um, sorry.’
For a moment, Luke was too stunned to speak.
‘Sorry?’ His scarred face broke into a grin. ‘By the gods,
Percy, why are you sorry? Show me that again!’
I didn’t want to. The short burst of manic energy had
completely abandoned me. But Luke insisted.
This time, there was no contest. The moment our swords
connected, Luke hit my hilt and sent my weapon skidding
across the ﬂoor.
After a long pause, somebody in the audience said,
‘Beginner’s luck?’
Luke wiped the sweat oﬀ his brow. He appraised me with
an entirely new interest. ‘Maybe,’ he said. ‘But I wonder
what Percy could do with a balanced sword….’
Friday afternoon, I was sitting with Grover at the lake,
resting from a near-death experience on the climbing wall.
Grover had scampered to the top like a mountain goat, but
102
the lava had almost got me. My shirt had smoking holes in
it. The hairs had been singed oﬀ my forearms.
We sat on the pier, watching the naiads do underwater
basket weaving, until I got up the nerve to ask Grover how
his conversation had gone with Mr D.
His face turned a sickly shade of yellow.
‘Fine,’ he said. ‘Just great.’
‘So your career’s still on track?’
He glanced at me nervously. ‘Chiron t-told you I want a
searcher’s licence?’
‘Well… no.’ I had no idea what a searcher’s licence was,
but it didn’t seem like the right time to ask. ‘He just said you
had big plans, you know… and that you needed credit for
completing a keeper’s assignment. So did you get it?’
Grover looked down at the naiads. ‘Mr D suspended
judgement. He said I hadn’t failed or succeeded with you
yet, so our fates were still tied together. If you got a quest
and I went along to protect you, and we both came back
alive, then maybe he’d consider the job complete.’
My spirits lifted. ‘Well, that’s not so bad, right?’
‘Blaa-ha-ha! He might as well have transferred me to
stable-cleaning duty. The chances of you getting a quest…
and even if you did, why would you want me along?’
‘Of course I’d want you along!’
Grover stared glumly into the water. ‘Basket weaving…
Must be nice to have a useful skill.’
I tried to reassure him that he had lots of talents, but that
just made him look more miserable. We talked about
canoeing and swordplay for a while, then debated the pros
and cons of the diﬀerent gods. Finally, I asked him about the
four empty cabins.
‘Number eight, the silver one, belongs to Artemis,’ he
said. ‘She vowed to be a maiden forever. So of course, no
kids. The cabin is, you know, honorary. If she didn’t have
one, she’d be mad.’
103
‘Yeah, okay. But the other three, the ones at the end. Are
those the Big Three?’
Grover tensed. We were getting close to a touchy subject.
‘No. One of them, number two, is Hera’s,’ he said. ‘That’s
another honorary thing. She’s the goddess of marriage, so
of course she wouldn’t go around having aﬀairs with
mortals. That’s her husband’s job. When we say the Big
Three, we mean the three powerful brothers, the sons of
Kronos.’
‘Zeus, Poseidon, Hades.’
‘Right. You know. After the great battle with the Titans,
they took over the world from their dad and drew lots to
decide who got what.’
‘Zeus got the sky,’ I remembered. ‘Poseidon the sea,
Hades the Underworld.’
‘Uh-huh.’
‘But Hades doesn’t have a cabin here.’
‘No. He doesn’t have a throne on Olympus, either. He sort
of does his own thing down in the Underworld. If he did have
a cabin here…’ Grover shuddered. ‘Well, it wouldn’t be
pleasant. Let’s leave it at that.’
‘But Zeus and Poseidon – they both had, like, a bazillion
kids in the myths. Why are their cabins empty?’
Grover shifted his hooves uncomfortably. ‘About sixty
years ago, after World War II, the Big Three agreed they
wouldn’t sire any more heroes. Their children were just too
powerful. They were aﬀecting the course of human events
too much, causing too much carnage. World War II, you
know, that was basically a ﬁght between the sons of Zeus
and Poseidon on one side, and the sons of Hades on the
other. The winning side, Zeus and Poseidon, made Hades
swear an oath with them: no more aﬀairs with mortal
women. They all swore on the River Styx.’
Thunder boomed.
I said, ‘That’s the most serious oath you can make.’
Grover nodded.
104
‘And the brothers kept their word – no kids?’
Grover’s face darkened. ‘Seventeen years ago, Zeus fell
oﬀ the wagon. There was this TV starlet with a big ﬂuﬀy
eighties hairdo – he just couldn’t help himself. When their
child was born, a little girl named Thalia… well, the River
Styx is serious about promises. Zeus himself got oﬀ easy
because he’s immortal, but he brought a terrible fate on his
daughter.’
‘But that isn’t fair! It wasn’t the little girl’s fault.’
Grover hesitated. ‘Percy, children of the Big Three have
powers greater than other half-bloods. They have a strong
aura, a scent that attracts monsters. When Hades found out
about the girl, he wasn’t too happy about Zeus breaking his
oath. Hades let the worst monsters out of Tartarus to
torment Thalia. A satyr was assigned to be her keeper when
she was twelve, but there was nothing he could do. He tried
to escort her here with a couple of other half-bloods she’d
befriended. They almost made it. They got all the way to the
top of that hill.’
He pointed across the valley, to the pine tree where I’d
fought the Minotaur. ‘All three Kindly Ones were after them,
along with a hoard of hellhounds. They were about to be
overrun when Thalia told her satyr to take the other two
half-bloods to safety while she held oﬀ the monsters. She
was wounded and tired, and she didn’t want to live like a
hunted animal. The satyr didn’t want to leave her, but he
couldn’t change her mind, and he had to protect the others.
So Thalia made her ﬁnal stand alone, at the top of that hill.
As she died, Zeus took pity on her. He turned her into that
pine tree. Her spirit still helps protect the borders of the
valley. That’s why the hill is called Half-Blood Hill.’
I stared at the pine in the distance.
The story made me feel hollow, and guilty, too. A girl my
age had sacriﬁced herself to save her friends. She had faced
a whole army of monsters. Next to that, my victory over the
105
Minotaur didn’t seem like much. I wondered, if I’d acted
diﬀerently, could I have saved my mother?
‘Grover,’ I said, ‘have heroes really gone on quests to the
Underworld?’
‘Sometimes,’ he said. ‘Orpheus. Hercules. Houdini.’
‘And have they ever returned somebody from the dead?’
‘No. Never. Orpheus came close…. Percy, you’re not
seriously thinking –’
‘No,’ I lied. ‘I was just wondering. So… a satyr is always
assigned to guard a demigod?’
Grover studied me warily. I hadn’t persuaded him that I’d
really dropped the Underworld idea. ‘Not always. We go
undercover to a lot of schools. We try to sniﬀ out the half-
bloods who have the makings of great heroes. If we ﬁnd one
with a very strong aura, like a child of the Big Three, we
alert Chiron. He tries to keep an eye on them, since they
could cause really huge problems.’
‘And you found me. Chiron said you thought I might be
something special.’
Grover looked as if I’d just led him into a trap. ‘I didn’t…
Oh, listen, don’t think like that. If you were – you know –
you’d never ever be allowed a quest, and I’d never get my
licence. You’re probably a child of Hermes. Or maybe even
one of the minor gods, like Nemesis, the god of revenge.
Don’t worry, okay?’
I got the idea he was reassuring himself more than me.
That night after dinner, there was a lot more excitement
than usual.
At last, it was time for capture the ﬂag.
When the plates were cleared away, the conch horn
sounded and we all stood at our tables.
Campers yelled and cheered as Annabeth and two of her
siblings ran into the pavilion carrying a silk banner. It was
about three metres long, glistening grey, with a painting of
a barn owl above an olive tree. From the opposite side of the
106
pavilion, Clarisse and her buddies ran in with another
banner, of identical size, but gaudy red, painted with a
bloody spear and a boar’s head.
I turned to Luke and yelled over the noise, ‘Those are the
ﬂags?’
‘Yeah.’
‘Ares and Athena always lead the teams?’
‘Not always,’ he said. ‘But often.’
‘So, if another cabin captures one, what do you do –
repaint the ﬂag?’
He grinned. ‘You’ll see. First we have to get one.’
‘Whose side are we on?’
He gave me a sly look, as if he knew something I didn’t.
The scar on his face made him look almost evil in the
torchlight. ‘We’ve made a temporary alliance with Athena.
Tonight, we get the ﬂag from Ares. And you are going to
help.’
The teams were announced. Athena had made an alliance
with Apollo and Hermes, the two biggest cabins. Apparently,
privileges had been traded – shower times, chore schedules,
the best slots for activities – in order to win support.
Ares had allied themselves with everybody else: Dionysus,
Demeter, Aphrodite and Hephaestus. From what I’d seen,
Dionysus’s kids were actually good athletes, but there were
only two of them. Demeter’s kids had the edge with nature
skills and outdoor stuﬀ, but they weren’t very aggressive.
Aphrodite’s sons and daughters I wasn’t too worried about.
They mostly sat out every activity and checked their
reﬂections in the lake and did their hair and gossiped.
Hephaestus’s kids weren’t pretty, and there were only four
of them, but they were big and burly from working in the
metal shop all day. They might be a problem. That, of
course, left Ares’s cabin: a dozen of the biggest, ugliest,
meanest kids on Long Island, or anywhere else on the
planet.
Chiron hammered his hoof on the marble.
107
‘Heroes!’ he announced. ‘You know the rules. The creek is
the boundary line. The entire forest is fair game. All magic
items are allowed. The banner must be prominently
displayed, and have no more than two guards. Prisoners
may be disarmed, but may not be bound or gagged. No
killing or maiming is allowed. I will serve as referee and
battleﬁeld medic. Arm yourselves!’
He spread his hands, and the tables were suddenly
covered with equipment: helmets, bronze swords, spears,
oxhide shields coated in metal.
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘We’re really supposed to use these?’
Luke looked at me as if I were crazy. ‘Unless you want to
get skewered by your friends in cabin ﬁve. Here – Chiron
thought these would ﬁt. You’ll be on border patrol.’
My shield was the size of an NBA backboard, with a big
caduceus in the middle. It weighed about a million pounds. I
could have snowboarded on it ﬁne, but I hoped nobody
seriously expected me to run fast. My helmet, like all the
helmets on Athena’s side, had a blue horsehair plume on
top. Ares and their allies had red plumes.
Annabeth yelled, ‘Blue team, forward!’
We cheered and shook our swords and followed her down
the path to the south woods. The red team yelled taunts at
us as they headed oﬀ towards the north.
I managed to catch up with Annabeth without tripping
over my equipment. ‘Hey.’
She kept marching.
‘So what’s the plan?’ I asked. ‘Got any magic items you
can loan me?’
Her hand drifted towards her pocket, as if she were afraid
I’d stolen something.
‘Just watch Clarisse’s spear,’ she said. ‘You don’t want that
thing touching you. Otherwise, don’t worry. We’ll take the
banner from Ares. Has Luke given you your job?’
‘Border patrol, whatever that means.’
108
‘It’s easy. Stand by the creek, keep the reds away. Leave
the rest to me. Athena always has a plan.’
She pushed ahead, leaving me in the dust.
‘Okay,’ I mumbled. ‘Glad you wanted me on your team.’
It was a warm, sticky night. The woods were dark, with
ﬁreﬂies popping in and out of view. Annabeth stationed me
next to a little creek that gurgled over some rocks, then she
and the rest of the team scattered into the trees.
Standing there alone, with my big blue-feathered helmet
and my huge shield, I felt like an idiot. The bronze sword,
like all the swords I’d tried so far, seemed balanced wrong.
The leather grip pulled on my hand like a bowling ball.
There was no way anybody would actually attack me,
would they? I mean, Olympus had to have liability issues,
right?
Far away, the conch horn blew. I heard whoops and yells in
the woods, the clanking of metal, kids ﬁghting. A blue-
plumed ally from Apollo raced past me like a deer, leaped
through the creek and disappeared into enemy territory.
Great, I thought. I’ll miss all the fun, as usual.
Then I heard a sound that sent a chill up my spine, a low
canine growl, somewhere close by.
I raised my shield instinctively; I had the feeling
something was stalking me.
Then the growling stopped. I felt the presence retreating.
On the other side of the creek, the underbrush exploded.
Five Ares warriors came yelling and screaming out of the
dark.
‘Cream the punk!’ Clarisse screamed.
Her ugly pig eyes glared through the slits of her helmet.
She brandished a two-metre spear, its barbed metal tip
ﬂickering with red light. Her siblings had only the standard-
issue bronze swords – not that that made me feel any
better.
They charged across the stream. There was no help in
sight. I could run. Or I could defend myself against half the
109
Ares cabin.
I managed to sidestep the ﬁrst kid’s swing, but these guys
were not as stupid as Minotaurs. They surrounded me, and
Clarisse thrust at me with her spear. My shield deﬂected the
point, but I felt a painful tingling all over my body. My hair
stood on end. My shield arm went numb, and the air burned.
Electricity. Her stupid spear was electric. I fell back.
Another Ares guy slammed me in the chest with the butt
of his sword and I hit the dirt.
They could’ve kicked me into jelly, but they were too busy
laughing.
‘Give him a haircut,’ Clarisse said. ‘Grab his hair.’
I managed to get to my feet. I raised my sword, but
Clarisse slammed it aside with her spear as sparks ﬂew. Now
both my arms felt numb.
‘Oh, wow,’ Clarisse said. ‘I’m scared of this guy. Really
scared.’
‘The ﬂag is that way,’ I told her. I wanted to sound angry,
but I was afraid it didn’t come out that way.
‘Yeah,’ one of her siblings said. ‘But see, we don’t care
about the ﬂag. We care about a guy who made our cabin
look stupid.’
‘You do that without my help,’ I told them. It probably
wasn’t the smartest thing to say.
Two of them came at me. I backed up towards the creek,
tried to raise my shield, but Clarisse was too fast. Her spear
stuck me straight in the ribs. If I hadn’t been wearing an
armoured breast plate, I would’ve been shish-kebabbed. As
it was, the electric point just about shocked my teeth out of
my mouth. One of her cabinmates slashed his sword across
my arm, leaving a good-size cut.
Seeing my own blood made me dizzy, warm and cold at
the same time.
‘No maiming,’ I managed to say.
‘Oops,’ the guy said. ‘Guess I lost my dessert privilege.’
110
He pushed me into the creek and I landed with a splash.
They all laughed. I ﬁgured as soon as they were through
being amused, I would die. But then something happened.
The water seemed to wake up my senses, as if I’d just had a
bag of my mom’s double-espresso jelly beans.
Clarisse and her cabinmates came into the creek to get
me, but I stood to meet them. I knew what to do. I swung
the ﬂat of my sword against the ﬁrst guy’s head and
knocked his helmet clean oﬀ. I hit him so hard I could see
his eyes vibrating as he crumpled into the water.
Ugly Number Two and Ugly Number Three came at me. I
slammed one in the face with my shield and used my sword
to shear oﬀ the other guy’s horsehair plume. Both of them
backed up quick. Ugly Number Four didn’t look really
anxious to attack, but Clarisse kept coming, the point of her
spear crackling with energy. As soon as she thrust, I caught
the shaft between the edge of my shield and my sword, and
I snapped it like a twig.
‘Ah!’ she screamed. ‘You idiot! You corpse-breath worm!’
She probably would’ve said worse, but I smacked her
between the eyes with my sword-butt and sent her
stumbling backwards out of the creek.
Then I heard yelling, elated screams, and I saw Luke
racing towards the boundary line with the red team’s
banner lifted high. He was ﬂanked by a couple of Hermes
guys covering his retreat and a few Apollos behind them,
ﬁghting oﬀ the Hephaestus kids. The Ares folks got up, and
Clarisse muttered a dazed curse.
‘A trick!’ she shouted. ‘It was a trick.’
They staggered after Luke, but it was too late. Everybody
converged on the creek as Luke ran across into friendly
territory. Our side exploded into cheers. The red banner
shimmered and turned to silver. The boar and spear were
replaced with a huge caduceus, the symbol of cabin eleven.
Everybody on the blue team picked up Luke and started
111
carrying him around on their shoulders. Chiron cantered out
from the woods and blew the conch horn.
The game was over. We’d won.
I was about to join the celebration when Annabeth’s voice,
right next to me in the creek, said, ‘Not bad, hero.’
I looked, but she wasn’t there.
‘Where the heck did you learn to ﬁght like that?’ she
asked. The air shimmered, and she materialized, holding a
Yankees baseball cap as if she’d just taken it oﬀ her head.
I felt myself getting angry. I wasn’t even fazed by the fact
that she’d just been invisible. ‘You set me up,’ I said. ‘You
put me here because you knew Clarisse would come after
me, while you sent Luke around the ﬂank. You had it all
ﬁgured out.’
Annabeth shrugged. ‘I told you. Athena always, always
has a plan.’
‘A plan to get me pulverized.’
‘I came as fast as I could. I was about to jump in, but…’
She shrugged. ‘You didn’t need help.’
Then she noticed my wounded arm. ‘How did you do
that?’
‘Sword cut,’ I said. ‘What do you think?’
‘No. It was a sword cut. Look at it.’
The blood was gone. Where the huge cut had been, there
was a long white scratch, and even that was fading. As I
watched, it turned into a small scar, and disappeared.
‘I – I don’t get it,’ I said.
Annabeth was thinking hard. I could almost see the gears
turning. She looked down at my feet, then at Clarisse’s
broken spear, and said, ‘Step out of the water, Percy.’
‘What –’
‘Just do it.’
I came out of the creek and immediately felt bone tired.
My arms started to go numb again. My adrenalin rush left
me. I almost fell over, but Annabeth steadied me.
112
‘Oh, Styx,’ she cursed. ‘This is not good. I didn’t want… I
assumed it would be Zeus.…’
Before I could ask what she meant, I heard that canine
growl again, but much closer than before. A howl ripped
through the forest.
The campers’ cheering died instantly. Chiron shouted
something in Ancient Greek, which I would realize, only
later, I had understood perfectly: ‘Stand ready! My bow!’
Annabeth drew her sword.
There on the rocks just above us was a black hound the
size of a rhino, with lava-red eyes and fangs like daggers.
It was looking straight at me.
Nobody moved except Annabeth, who yelled, ‘Percy, run!’
She tried to step in front of me, but the hound was too
fast. It leaped over her – an enormous shadow with teeth –
and just as it hit me, as I stumbled backwards and felt its
razor-sharp claws ripping through my armour, there was a
cascade of thwacking sounds, like forty pieces of paper
being ripped one after the other. From the hound’s neck
sprouted a cluster of arrows. The monster fell dead at my
feet.
By some miracle, I was still alive. I didn’t want to look
underneath the ruins of my shredded armour. My chest felt
warm and wet, and I knew I was badly cut. Another second,
and the monster would’ve turned me into ﬁfty kilograms of
delicatessen meat.
Chiron trotted up next to us, a bow in his hand, his face
grim.
‘Di immortales,’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s a hellhound from
the Fields of Punishment. They don’t… they’re not supposed
to…’
‘Someone summoned it,’ Chiron said. ‘Someone inside the
camp.’
Luke came over, the banner in his hand forgotten, his
moment of glory gone.
Clarisse yelled, ‘It’s all Percy’s fault! Percy summoned it!’
113
‘Be quiet, child,’ Chiron told her.
We watched the body of the hellhound melt into shadow,
soaking into the ground until it disappeared.
‘You’re wounded,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Quick, Percy, get in
the water.’
‘I’m okay.’
‘No, you’re not,’ she said. ‘Chiron, watch this.’
I was too tired to argue. I stepped back into the creek, the
whole camp gathering around me.
Instantly, I felt better. I could feel the cuts on my chest
closing up. Some of the campers gasped.
‘Look, I – I don’t know why,’ I said, trying to apologize. ‘I’m
sorry…’
But they weren’t watching my wounds heal. They were
staring at something above my head.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, pointing. ‘Um…’
By the time I looked up, the sign was already fading, but I
could still make out the hologram of green light, spinning
and gleaming. A three-tipped spear: a trident.
‘Your father,’ Annabeth murmured. ‘This is really not
good.’
‘It is determined,’ Chiron announced.
All around me, campers started kneeling, even the Ares
cabin, though they didn’t look happy about it.
‘My father?’ I asked, completely bewildered.
‘Poseidon,’ said Chiron. ‘Earthshaker, Stormbringer, Father
of Horses. Hail, Perseus Jackson, Son of the Sea God.’
114
9    I Am Oﬀered a Quest
 
The next morning, Chiron moved me to cabin three.
I didn’t have to share with anybody. I had plenty of room
for all my stuﬀ: the Minotaur horn, one set of spare clothes
and a toiletry bag. I got to sit at my own dinner table, pick
all my own activities, call ‘lights out’ whenever I felt like it
and not listen to anybody else.
And I was absolutely miserable.
Just when I’d started to feel accepted, to feel I had a home
in cabin eleven and I might be a normal kid – or as normal
as you can be when you’re a half-blood – I’d been separated
out as if I had some rare disease.
Nobody mentioned the hellhound, but I got the feeling
they were all talking about it behind my back. The attack
had scared everybody. It sent two messages: one, that I was
the son of the Sea God; and two, monsters would stop at
nothing to kill me. They could even invade a camp that had
always been considered safe.
The other campers steered clear of me as much as
possible. Cabin eleven was too nervous to have sword class
with me after what I’d done to the Ares folks in the woods,
so my lessons with Luke became one-on-one. He pushed me
harder than ever, and wasn’t afraid to bruise me up in the
process.
‘You’re going to need all the training you can get,’ he
promised, as we were working with swords and ﬂaming
torches. ‘Now let’s try that viper-beheading strike again.
Fifty more repetitions.’
115
Annabeth still taught me Greek in the mornings, but she
seemed distracted. Every time I said something, she
scowled at me, as if I’d just poked her between the eyes.
After lessons, she would walk away muttering to herself:
‘Quest… Poseidon?… Dirty rotten… Got to make a plan…’
Even Clarisse kept her distance, though her venomous
looks made it clear she wanted to kill me for breaking her
magic spear. I wished she would just yell or punch me or
something. I’d rather get into ﬁghts every day than be
ignored.
I knew somebody at camp resented me, because one night I
came into my cabin and found a mortal newspaper dropped
inside the doorway, a New York Daily News, opened to the
Metro page. The article took me almost an hour to read,
because the angrier I got, the more the words ﬂoated
around on the page.
 
BOY AND MOTHER STILL MISSING AFTER FREAK CAR ACCIDENT
BY EILEEN SMYTHE
Sally Jackson and son Percy are still missing one week after their
mysterious disappearance. The family’s badly burned ‘78 Camaro was
discovered last Saturday on a north Long Island road with the roof
ripped oﬀ and the front axle broken. The car had ﬂipped and skidded
for several hundred metres before exploding.
 
Mother and son had gone for a weekend vacation to Montauk, but
left hastily, under mysterious circumstances. Small traces of blood
were found in the car and near the scene of the wreck, but there were
no other signs of the missing Jacksons. Residents in the rural area
reported seeing nothing unusual around the time of the accident.
 
Ms Jackson’s husband, Gabe Ugliano, claims that his stepson, Percy
Jackson, is a troubled child who has been kicked out of numerous
boarding schools and has expressed violent tendencies in the past.
 
Police would not say whether son Percy is a suspect in his mother’s
disappearance, but they have not ruled out foul play. Below are recent
116
pictures of Sally Jackson and Percy. Police urge anyone with
information to call the following toll-free crime-stoppers hotline.
 
 
The phone number was circled in black marker.
I wadded up the paper and threw it away, then ﬂopped
down in my bunk bed in the middle of my empty cabin.
‘Lights out,’ I told myself miserably.
That night, I had my worst dream yet.
I was running along the beach in a storm. This time, there
was a city behind me. Not New York. The sprawl was
diﬀerent: buildings spread farther apart, palm trees and low
hills in the distance.
About a hundred metres down the surf, two men were
ﬁghting. They looked like TV wrestlers, muscular, with
beards and long hair. Both wore ﬂowing Greek tunics, one
trimmed in blue, the other in green. They grappled with
each other, wrestled, kicked and head-butted, and every
time they connected, lightning ﬂashed, the sky grew darker,
and the wind rose.
I had to stop them. I didn’t know why. But the harder I ran,
the more the wind blew me back, until I was running on the
spot, my heels digging uselessly in the sand.
Over the roar of the storm, I could hear the blue-robed
one yelling at the green-robed one, Give it back! Give it
back! Like a kindergartner ﬁghting over a toy.
The waves got bigger, crashing into the beach, spraying
me with salt.
I yelled, Stop it! Stop ﬁghting!
The ground shook. Laughter came from somewhere under
the earth, and a voice so deep and evil it turned my blood to
ice.
‘Come down, little hero,’ the voice crooned. ‘Come down!’
The sand split beneath me, opening up a crevice straight
down to the centre of the earth. My feet slipped, and
117
darkness swallowed me.
I woke up, sure I was falling.
I was still in bed in cabin three. My body told me it was
morning, but it was dark outside, and thunder rolled across
the hills. A storm was brewing. I hadn’t dreamed that.
I heard a clopping sound at the door, a hoof knocking on
the threshold.
‘Come in.’
Grover trotted inside, looking worried. ‘Mr D wants to see
you.’
‘Why?’
‘He wants to kill… I mean, I’d better let him tell you.’
Nervously, I got dressed and followed, sure that I was in
huge trouble.
For days, I’d been half expecting a summons to the Big
House. Now that I was declared a son of Poseidon, one of
the Big Three gods who weren’t supposed to have kids, I
ﬁgured it was a crime for me just to be alive. The other gods
had probably been debating the best way to punish me for
existing, and now Mr D was ready to deliver their verdict.
Over Long Island Sound, the sky looked like ink soup
coming to a boil. A hazy curtain of rain was coming in our
direction. I asked Grover if we needed an umbrella.
‘No,’ he said. ‘It never rains here unless we want it to.’
I pointed at the storm. ‘What the heck is that, then?’
He glanced uneasily at the sky. ‘It’ll pass around us. Bad
weather always does.’
I realized he was right. In the week I’d been here, it had
never even been overcast. The few rain clouds I’d seen had
skirted right around the edges of the valley.
But this storm… this one was huge.
At the volleyball pit, the kids from Apollo’s cabin were
playing a morning game against the satyrs. Dionysus’s
twins were walking around in the strawberry ﬁelds, making
the plants grow. Everybody was going about their normal
118
business, but they looked tense. They kept their eyes on the
storm.
Grover and I walked up to the front porch of the Big
House. Dionysus sat at the pinochle table in his tiger-striped
Hawaiian shirt with his Diet Coke, just as he had on my ﬁrst
day. Chiron sat across the table in his fake wheelchair. They
were playing against invisible opponents – two sets of cards
hovering in the air.
‘Well, well,’ Mr D said without looking up. ‘Our little
celebrity.’
I waited.
‘Come closer,’ Mr D said. ‘And don’t expect me to kowtow
to you, mortal, just because old Barnacle-Beard is your
father.’
A net of lightning ﬂashed across the clouds. Thunder
shook the windows of the house.
‘Blah, blah, blah,’ Dionysus said.
Chiron feigned interest in his pinochle cards. Grover
cowered by the railing, his hooves clopping back and forth.
‘If I had my way,’ Dionysus said, ‘I would cause your
molecules to erupt in ﬂames. We’d sweep up the ashes and
be done with a lot of trouble. But Chiron seems to feel this
would be against my mission at this cursed camp: to keep
you little brats safe from harm.’
‘Spontaneous combustion is a form of harm, Mr D,’ Chiron
put in.
‘Nonsense,’ Dionysus said. ‘Boy wouldn’t feel a thing.
Nevertheless, I’ve agreed to restrain myself. I’m thinking of
turning you into a dolphin instead, sending you back to your
father.’
‘Mr D –’ Chiron warned.
‘Oh, all right,’ Dionysus relented. ‘There’s one more
option. But it’s deadly foolishness.’ Dionysus rose, and the
invisible players’ cards dropped to the table. ‘I’m oﬀ to
Olympus for the emergency meeting. If the boy is still here
when I get back, I’ll turn him into an Atlantic bottlenose. Do
119
you understand? And Perseus Jackson, if you’re at all smart,
you’ll see that’s a much more sensible choice than what
Chiron feels you must do.’
Dionysus picked up a playing card, twisted it, and it
became a plastic rectangle. A credit card? No. A security
pass.
He snapped his ﬁngers.
The air seemed to fold and bend around him. He became
a holograph, then a wind, then he was gone, leaving only
the smell of fresh-pressed grapes lingering behind.
Chiron smiled at me, but he looked tired and strained. ‘Sit,
Percy, please. And Grover.’
We did.
Chiron laid his cards on the table, a winning hand he
hadn’t got to use.
‘Tell me, Percy,’ he said. ‘What did you make of the
hellhound?’
Just hearing the name made me shudder.
Chiron probably wanted me to say, Heck, it was nothing. I
eat hellhounds for breakfast. But I didn’t feel like lying.
‘It scared me,’ I said. ‘If you hadn’t shot it, I’d be dead.’
‘You’ll meet worse, Percy. Far worse, before you’re done.’
‘Done… with what?’
‘Your quest, of course. Will you accept it?’
I glanced at Grover, who was crossing his ﬁngers.
‘Um, sir,’ I said, ‘you haven’t told me what it is yet.’
Chiron grimaced. ‘Well, that’s the hard part, the details.’
Thunder rumbled across the valley. The storm clouds had
now reached the edge of the beach. As far as I could see,
the sky and the sea were boiling together.
‘Poseidon and Zeus,’ I said. ‘They’re ﬁghting over
something valuable… something that was stolen, aren’t
they?’
Chiron and Grover exchanged looks.
Chiron sat forward in his wheelchair. ‘How did you know
that?’
120
My face felt hot. I wished I hadn’t opened my big mouth.
‘The weather since Christmas has been weird, like the sea
and the sky are ﬁghting. Then I talked to Annabeth, and
she’d overheard something about a theft. And… I’ve also
been having these dreams.’
‘I knew it,’ Grover said.
‘Hush, satyr,’ Chiron ordered.
‘But it is his quest!’ Grover’s eyes were bright with
excitement. ‘It must be!’
‘Only the Oracle can determine.’ Chiron stroked his bristly
beard. ‘Nevertheless, Percy, you are correct. Your father and
Zeus are having their worst quarrel in centuries. They are
ﬁghting over something valuable that was stolen. To be
precise: a lightning bolt.’
I laughed nervously. ‘A what?’
‘Do not take this lightly,’ Chiron warned. ‘I’m not talking
about some tinfoil-covered zigzag you’d see in a second-
grade play. I’m talking about a two-foot-long cylinder of
high-grade celestial bronze, capped on both ends with god-
level explosives.’
‘Oh.’
‘Zeus’s master bolt,’ Chiron said, getting worked up now.
‘The symbol of his power, from which all other lightning
bolts are patterned. The ﬁrst weapon made by the Cyclopes
for the war against the Titans, the bolt that sheered the top
oﬀ Mount Etna and hurled Kronos from his throne; the
master bolt, which packs enough power to make mortal
hydrogen bombs look like ﬁrecrackers.’
‘And it’s missing?’
‘Stolen,’ Chiron said.
‘By who?’
‘By whom’ Chiron corrected. Once a teacher, always a
teacher. ‘By you.’
My mouth fell open.
‘At least’ – Chiron held up a hand – ‘that’s what Zeus
thinks. During the winter solstice, at the last council of the
121
gods, Zeus and Poseidon had an argument. The usual
nonsense: “Mother Rhea always liked you best,” “Air
disasters are more spectacular than sea disasters,” et
cetera. Afterwards, Zeus realized his master bolt was
missing, taken from the throne room under his very nose.
He immediately blamed Poseidon. Now a god cannot usurp
another god‘s symbol of power directly – that is forbidden
by the most ancient of divine laws. But Zeus believes your
father convinced a human hero to take it.’
‘But I didn’t –’
‘Patience and listen, child,’ Chiron said. ‘Zeus has good
reason to be suspicious. The forges of the Cyclopes are
under the ocean, which gives Poseidon some inﬂuence over
the makers of his brother’s lightning. Zeus believes
Poseidon has taken the master bolt, and is now secretly
having the Cyclopes build an arsenal of illegal copies, which
might be used to topple Zeus from his throne. The only
thing Zeus wasn’t sure about was which hero Poseidon used
to steal the bolt. Now Poseidon has openly claimed you as
his son. You were in New York over the winter holidays. You
could easily have snuck into Olympus. Zeus believes he has
found his thief.’
‘But I’ve never even been to Olympus! Zeus is crazy!’
Chiron and Grover glanced nervously at the sky. The
clouds didn’t seem to be parting around us, as Grover had
promised. They were rolling straight over our valley, sealing
us in like a coﬃn lid.
‘Er, Percy…?’ Grover said. ‘We don’t use the c-word to
describe the Lord of the Sky.’
‘Perhaps paranoid,’ Chiron suggested. ‘Then again,
Poseidon has tried to unseat Zeus before. I believe that was
question thirty-eight on your ﬁnal exam…’ He looked at me
as if he actually expected me to remember question thirty-
eight.
How could anyone accuse me of stealing a god’s weapon?
I couldn’t even steal a slice of pizza from Gabe’s poker party
122
without getting busted. Chiron was waiting for an answer.
‘Something about a golden net?’ I guessed. ‘Poseidon and
Hera and a few other gods… they, like, trapped Zeus and
wouldn’t let him out until he promised to be a better ruler,
right?’
‘Correct,’ Chiron said. ‘And Zeus has never trusted
Poseidon since. Of course, Poseidon denies stealing the
master bolt. He took great oﬀence at the accusation. The
two have been arguing back and forth for months,
threatening war. And now, you’ve come along – the
proverbial last straw.’
‘But I’m just a kid!’
‘Percy,’ Grover cut in, ‘if you were Zeus, and you already
thought your brother was plotting to overthrow you, then
your brother suddenly admitted he had broken the sacred
oath he took after World War II, that he’s fathered a new
mortal hero who might be used as a weapon against you…
Wouldn’t that put a twist in your toga?’
‘But I didn’t do anything. Poseidon – my dad – he didn’t
really have this master bolt stolen, did he?’
Chiron sighed. ‘Most thinking observers would agree that
thievery is not Poseidon’s style. But the sea god is too proud
to try convincing Zeus of that. Zeus has demanded that
Poseidon return the bolt by the summer solstice. That’s June
twenty-ﬁrst, ten days from now. Poseidon wants an apology
for being called a thief by the same date. I hoped that
diplomacy might prevail, that Hera or Demeter or Hestia
would make the two brothers see sense. But your arrival has
inﬂamed Zeus’s temper. Now neither god will back down.
Unless someone intervenes, unless the master bolt is found
and returned to Zeus before the solstice, there will be war.
And do you know what a full-ﬂedged war would look like,
Percy?’
‘Bad?’ I guessed.
‘Imagine the world in chaos. Nature at war with itself.
Olympians forced to choose sides between Zeus and
123
Poseidon. Destruction. Carnage. Millions dead. Western
civilization turned into a battleground so big it will make the
Trojan War look like a water-balloon ﬁght.’
‘Bad,’ I repeated.
‘And you, Percy Jackson, would be the ﬁrst to feel Zeus’s
wrath.’
It started to rain. Volleyball players stopped their game
and stared in stunned silence at the sky.
I had brought this storm to Half-Blood Hill. Zeus was
punishing the whole camp because of me. I was furious.
‘So I have to ﬁnd the stupid bolt,’ I said. ‘And return it to
Zeus.’
‘What better peace oﬀering,’ Chiron said, ‘than to have
the son of Poseidon return Zeus’s property?’
‘If Poseidon doesn’t have it, where is the thing?’
‘I believe I know.’ Chiron’s expression was grim. ‘Part of a
prophecy I had years ago… well, some of the lines make
sense to me, now. But before I can say more, you must
oﬃcially take up the quest. You must seek the counsel of the
Oracle.’
‘Why can’t you tell me where the bolt is beforehand?’
‘Because if I did, you would be too afraid to accept the
challenge.’
I swallowed. ‘Good reason.’
‘You agree then?’
I looked at Grover, who nodded encouragingly.
Easy for him. I was the one Zeus wanted to kill.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘It’s better than being turned into a
dolphin.’
‘Then it’s time you consulted the Oracle,’ Chiron said. ‘Go
upstairs, Percy Jackson, to the attic. When you come back
down, assuming you’re still sane, we will talk more.’
Four ﬂights up, the stairs ended under a green trapdoor.
I pulled the cord. The door swung down, and a wooden
ladder clattered into place.
124
The warm air from above smelled like mildew and rotten
wood and something else… a smell I remembered from
biology class. Reptiles. The smell of snakes.
I held my breath and climbed.
The attic was ﬁlled with Greek hero junk: armour stands
covered in cobwebs; once-bright shields pitted with rust; old
leather steamer trunks plastered with stickers saying
ITHAKA, CIRCE’S ISLE and LAND OF THE AMAZONS. One long
table was stacked with glass jars ﬁlled with pickled things–
severed hairy claws, huge yellow eyes, various other parts
of monsters. A dusty mounted trophy on the wall looked like
a giant snake’s head, but with horns and a full set of shark’s
teeth. The plaque read: HYDRA HEAD NO. I, WOODSTOCK,
NY, 1969.
By the window, sitting on a wooden tripod stool, was the
most gruesome memento of all: a mummy. Not the
wrapped-in-cloth kind, but a human female body shrivelled
to a husk. She wore a tie-dyed sundress, lots of beaded
necklaces, and a headband over long black hair. The skin of
her face was thin and leathery over her skull, and her eyes
were glassy white slits, as if the real eyes had been replaced
by marbles; she’d been dead a long, long time.
Looking at her sent chills up my back. And that was before
she sat up on her stool and opened her mouth. A green mist
poured from the mummy’s mouth, coiling over the ﬂoor in
thick tendrils, hissing like twenty-thousand snakes. I
stumbled over myself trying to get to the trapdoor, but it
slammed shut. Inside my head, I heard a voice, slithering
into one ear and coiling around my brain: I am the spirit of
Delphi, speaker of the prophecies of Phoebus Apollo, slayer
of the mighty Python. Approach, seeker, and ask.
I wanted to say, No thanks, wrong door, just looking for
the bathroom. But I forced myself to take a deep breath.
The mummy wasn’t alive. She was some kind of gruesome
receptacle for something else, the power that was now
swirling around me in the green mist. But its presence didn’t
125
feel evil, like my demonic maths teacher Mrs Dodds or the
Minotaur. It felt more like the Three Fates I’d seen knitting
the yarn outside the highway fruit stand: ancient, powerful
and deﬁnitely not human. But not particularly interested in
killing me, either.
I got up the courage to ask, ‘What is my destiny?’
The mist swirled more thickly, collecting right in front of
me and around the table with the pickled monster-part jars.
Suddenly there were four men sitting around the table,
playing cards. Their faces became clearer. It was Smelly
Gabe and his buddies.
My ﬁsts clenched, though I knew this poker party couldn’t
be real. It was an illusion, made out of mist.
Gabe turned towards me and spoke in the rasping voice of
the Oracle: You shall go west, and face the god who has
turned.
His buddy on the right looked up and said in the same voice:
You shall ﬁnd what was stolen, and see it safely returned.
The guy on the left threw in two poker chips, then said: You
shall be betrayed by one who calls you a friend.
Finally, Eddie, our building super, delivered the worst line of
all: And you shall fail to save what matters most, in the end.
The ﬁgures began to dissolve. At ﬁrst I was too stunned to
say anything, but as the mist retreated, coiling into a huge
green serpent and slithering back into the mouth of the
mummy, I cried, ‘Wait! What do you mean? What friend?
What will I fail to save?’
The tail of the mist snake disappeared into the mummy’s
mouth. She reclined back against the wall. Her mouth
closed tight, as if it hadn’t been open in a hundred years.
The attic was silent again, abandoned, nothing but a room
full of mementos.
126
I got the feeling that I could stand here until I had
cobwebs, too, and I wouldn’t learn anything else.
My audience with the Oracle was over.
‘Well?’ Chiron asked me.
I slumped into a chair at the pinochle table. ‘She said I
would retrieve what was stolen.’
Grover sat forward, chewing excitedly on the remains of a
Diet Coke can. ‘That’s great!’
‘What did the Oracle say exactly?’ Chiron pressed. ‘This is
important.’
My ears were still tingling from the reptilian voice. ‘She…
she said I would go west and face a god who had turned. I
would retrieve what was stolen and see it safely returned.’
‘I knew it,’ Grover said.
Chiron didn’t look satisﬁed. ‘Anything else?’
I didn’t want to tell him.
What friend would betray me? I didn’t have that many.
And the last line – I would fail to save what mattered
most. What kind of Oracle would send me on a quest and
tell me, Oh, by the way, you’ll fail.
How could I confess that?
‘No,’ I said. ‘That’s about it.’
He studied my face. ‘Very well, Percy. But know this: the
Oracle’s words often have double meanings. Don’t dwell on
them too much. The truth is not always clear until events
come to pass.’
I got the feeling he knew I was holding back something
bad, and he was trying to make me feel better.
‘Okay,’ I said, anxious to change topics. ‘So where do I go?
Who’s this god in the west?’
‘Ah, think, Percy’ Chiron said. ‘If Zeus and Poseidon
weaken each other in a war, who stands to gain?’
‘Somebody else who wants to take over?’ I guessed.
‘Yes, quite. Someone who harbours a grudge, who has
been unhappy with his lot since the world was divided aeons
127
ago, whose kingdom would grow powerful with the deaths of
millions. Someone who hates his brothers for forcing him
into an oath to have no more children, an oath that both of
them have now broken.’
I thought about my dreams, the evil voice that had spoken
from under the ground. ‘Hades.’
Chiron nodded. ‘The Lord of the Dead is the only
possibility.’
A scrap of aluminium dribbled out of Grover’s mouth.
‘Whoa, wait. Wh-what?’
‘A Fury came after Percy,’ Chiron reminded him. ‘She
watched the young man until she was sure of his identity,
then tried to kill him. Furies obey only one lord: Hades.’
‘Yes, but – but Hades hates all heroes,’ Grover protested.
‘Especially if he has found out Percy is a son of Poseidon…’
‘A hellhound got into the forest,’ Chiron continued. ‘Those
can only be summoned from the Fields of Punishment, and it
had to be summoned by someone within the camp. Hades
must have a spy here. He must suspect Poseidon will try to
use Percy to clear his name. Hades would very much like to
kill this young half-blood before he can take on the quest.’
‘Great,’ I muttered. ‘That’s two major gods who want to
kill me.’
‘But a quest to…’ Grover swallowed. ‘I mean, couldn’t the
master bolt be in some place like Maine? Maine’s very nice
this time of year.’
‘Hades sent a minion to steal the master bolt,’ Chiron
insisted. ‘He hid it in the Underworld, knowing full well that
Zeus would blame Poseidon. I don’t pretend to understand
the Lord of the Dead’s motives perfectly, or why he chose
this time to start a war, but one thing is certain. Percy must
go to the Underworld, ﬁnd the master bolt, and reveal the
truth.’
A strange ﬁre burned in my stomach. The weirdest thing
was: it wasn’t fear. It was anticipation. The desire for
revenge. Hades had tried to kill me three times so far, with
128
the Fury, the Minotaur and the hellhound. It was his fault my
mother had disappeared in a ﬂash of light. Now he was
trying to frame me and my dad for a theft we hadn’t
committed.
I was ready to take him on.
Besides, if my mother was in the Underworld…
Whoa, boy, said the small part of my brain that was still
sane. You’re a kid. Hades is a god.
Grover was trembling. He’d started eating pinochle cards
like potato crisps.
The poor guy needed to complete a quest with me so he
could get his searcher’s licence, whatever that was, but how
could I ask him to do this quest, especially when the Oracle
said I was destined to fail? This was suicide.
‘Look, if we know it’s Hades,’ I told Chiron, ‘why can’t we
just tell the other gods? Zeus or Poseidon could go down to
the Underworld and bust some heads.’
‘Suspecting and knowing are not the same,’ Chiron said.
‘Besides, even if the other gods suspect Hades – and I
imagine Poseidon does – they couldn’t retrieve the bolt
themselves. Gods cannot cross each other’s territories
except by invitation. That is another ancient rule. Heroes, on
the other hand, have certain privileges. They can go
anywhere, challenge anyone, as long as they’re bold
enough and strong enough to do it. No god can be held
responsible for a hero’s actions. Why do you think the gods
always operate through humans?’
‘You’re saying I’m being used.’
‘I’m saying it’s no accident Poseidon has claimed you now.
It’s a very risky gamble, but he’s in a desperate situation.
He needs you.’
My dad needs me.
Emotions rolled around inside me like bits of glass in a
kaleidoscope. I didn’t know whether to feel resentful or
grateful or happy or angry. Poseidon had ignored me for
twelve years. Now suddenly he needed me.
129
I looked at Chiron. ‘You’ve known I was Poseidon’s son all
along, haven’t you?’
‘I had my suspicions. As I said… I’ve spoken to the Oracle,
too.’
I got the feeling there was a lot he wasn’t telling me about
his prophecy, but I decided I couldn’t worry about that right
now. After all, I was holding back information too.
‘So let me get this straight,’ I said. ‘I’m supposed go to the
Underworld and confront the Lord of the Dead.’
‘Check,’ Chiron said.
‘Find the most powerful weapon in the universe.’
‘Check.’
‘And get it back to Olympus before the summer solstice,
in ten days.’
‘That’s about right.’
I looked at Grover, who gulped down the ace of hearts.
‘Did I mention that Maine is very nice this time of year?’
he asked weakly.
‘You don’t have to go,’ I told him. ‘I can’t ask that of you.’
‘Oh…’ He shifted his hooves. ‘No… it’s just that satyrs and
underground places… well…’
He took a deep breath, then stood, brushing the shredded
cards and aluminium bits oﬀ his T-shirt. ‘You saved my life,
Percy. If… if you’re serious about wanting me along, I won’t
let you down.’
I felt so relieved I wanted to cry, though I didn’t think that
would be very heroic. Grover was the only friend I’d ever
had for longer than a few months. I wasn’t sure what good a
satyr could do against the forces of the dead, but I felt
better knowing he’d be with me.
‘All the way, G-man.’ I turned to Chiron. ‘So where do we
go? The Oracle just said to go west.’
‘The entrance to the Underworld is always in the west. It
moves from age to age, just like Olympus. Right now, of
course, it’s in America.’
‘Where?’
130
Chiron looked surprised. ‘I thought that would be obvious
enough. The entrance to the Underworld is in Los Angeles.’
‘Oh,’ I said. ‘Naturally. So we just get on a plane –’
‘No!’ Grover shrieked. ‘Percy, what are you thinking? Have
you ever been on a plane in your life?’
I shook my head, feeling embarrassed. My mom had never
taken me anywhere by plane. She’d always said we didn’t
have the money. Besides, her parents had died in a plane
crash.
‘Percy, think,’ Chiron said. ‘You are the son of the Sea God.
Your father’s bitterest rival is Zeus, Lord of the Sky. Your
mother knew better than to trust you in an aeroplane. You
would be in Zeus’s domain. You would never come down
again alive.’
Overhead, lightning crackled. Thunder boomed.
‘Okay,’ I said, determined not to look at the storm. ‘So, I’ll
travel overland.’
‘That’s 
right,’ 
Chiron 
said. 
‘Two 
companions 
may
accompany you. Grover is one. The other has already
volunteered, if you will accept her help.’
‘Gee,’ I said, feigning surprise. ‘Who else would be stupid
enough to volunteer for a quest like this?’
The air shimmered behind Chiron.
Annabeth became visible, stuﬃng her Yankees cap into
her back pocket.
‘I’ve been waiting a long time for a quest, Seaweed Brain,’
she said. ‘Athena is no fan of Poseidon, but if you’re going to
save the world, I’m the best person to keep you from
messing up.’
‘If you do say so yourself,’ I said. ‘I suppose you have a
plan, Wise Girl?’
Her cheeks coloured. ‘Do you want my help or not?’
The truth was, I did. I needed all the help I could get.
‘A trio,’ I said. ‘That’ll work.’
‘Excellent,’ Chiron said. ‘This afternoon, we can take you
as far as the bus terminal in Manhattan. After that, you are
131
on your own.’
Lightning ﬂashed. Rain poured down on the meadows that
were never supposed to have violent weather.
‘No time to waste,’ Chiron said. ‘I think you should all get
packing.’
132
10    I Ruin a Perfectly Good Bus
 
It didn’t take me long to pack. I decided to leave the
Minotaur horn in my cabin, which left me only an extra
change of clothes and a toothbrush to stuﬀ in a backpack
Grover had found for me.
The camp store loaned me one hundred dollars in mortal
money and twenty golden drachmas. These coins were as
big as Girl Scout cookies and had images of various Greek
gods stamped on one side and the Empire State Building on
the other. The ancient mortal drachmas had been silver,
Chiron told us, but Olympians never used less than pure
gold. Chiron said the coins might come in handy for
nonmortal transactions – whatever that meant. He gave
Annabeth and me each a ﬂask of nectar and an airtight bag
full of ambrosia squares, to be used only in emergencies, if
we were seriously hurt. It was god food, Chiron reminded us.
It would cure us of almost any injury, but it was lethal to
mortals. Too much of it would make a half-blood very, very
feverish. An overdose would burn us up, literally.
Annabeth was bringing her magic Yankees cap, which she
told me had been a twelfth-birthday present from her mom.
She carried a book on famous classical architecture, written
in Ancient Greek, to read when she got bored, and a long
bronze knife, hidden in her shirt sleeve. I was sure the knife
would get us busted the ﬁrst time we went through a metal
detector.
Grover wore his fake feet and his trousers to pass as
human. He wore a green rasta-style cap, because when it
133
rained his curly hair ﬂattened and you could just see the tips
of his horns. His bright orange backpack was full of scrap
metal and apples to snack on. In his pocket was a set of
reed pipes his daddy goat had carved for him, even though
he only knew two songs: Mozart’s Piano Concerto no. 12 and
Hilary Duﬀ’s ‘So Yesterday’, both of which sounded pretty
bad on reed pipes.
We waved goodbye to the other campers, took one last
look at the strawberry ﬁelds, the ocean and the Big House,
then hiked up Half-Blood Hill to the tall pine tree that used
to be Thalia, daughter of Zeus.
Chiron was waiting for us in his wheelchair. Next to him
stood the surfer dude I’d seen when I was recovering in the
sick room. According to Grover, the guy was the camp’s
head of security. He supposedly had eyes all over his body
so he could never be surprised. Today, though, he was
wearing a chauﬀeur’s uniform, so I could only see extra
peepers on his hands, face and neck.
‘This is Argus,’ Chiron told me. ‘He will drive you into the
city, and, er, well, keep an eye on things.’
I heard footsteps behind us.
Luke came running up the hill, carrying a pair of
basketball shoes.
‘Hey!’ he panted. ‘Glad I caught you.’
Annabeth blushed, the way she always did when Luke was
around.
‘Just wanted to say good luck,’ Luke told me. ‘And I
thought… um, maybe you could use these.’
He handed me the sneakers, which looked pretty normal.
They even smelled kind of normal.
Luke said, ‘Maia!’
White bird’s wings sprouted out of the heels, startling me
so much, I dropped them. The shoes ﬂapped around on the
ground until the wings folded up and disappeared.
‘Awesome!’ Grover said.
134
Luke smiled. ‘Those served me well when I was on my
quest. Gift from Dad. Of course, I don’t use them much
these days…’ His expression turned sad.
I didn’t know what to say. It was cool enough that Luke
had come to say goodbye. I’d been afraid he might resent
me for getting so much attention the last few days. But here
he was giving me a magic gift… It made me blush almost as
much as Annabeth.
‘Hey, man,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
‘Listen, Percy…’ Luke looked uncomfortable. ‘A lot of
hopes are riding on you. So just… kill some monsters for
me, okay?’
We shook hands. Luke patted Grover’s head between his
horns, then gave a goodbye hug to Annabeth, who looked
like she might pass out.
After Luke was gone, I told her, ‘You’re hyperventilating.’
‘Am not.’
‘You let him capture the ﬂag instead of you, didn’t you?’
‘Oh… why do I want to go anywhere with you, Percy?’
She stomped down the other side of the hill, where a
white SUV waited on the shoulder of the road. Argus
followed, jingling his car keys.
I picked up the ﬂying shoes and had a sudden bad feeling.
I looked at Chiron. ‘I won’t be able to use these, will I?’
He shook his head. ‘Luke meant well, Percy. But taking to
the air… that would not be wise for you.’
I nodded, disappointed, but then I got an idea. ‘Hey,
Grover. You want a magic item?’
His eyes lit up. ‘Me?’
Pretty soon we’d laced the sneakers over his fake feet,
and the world’s ﬁrst ﬂying goat boy was ready for launch.
‘Maia!’ he shouted.
He got oﬀ the ground okay, but then fell over sideways so
his backpack dragged through the grass. The winged shoes
kept bucking up and down like tiny broncos.
‘Practice,’ Chiron called after him. ‘You just need practice!’
135
‘Aaaaa!’ Grover went ﬂying sideways down the hill like a
possessed lawn mower, heading towards the van.
Before I could follow, Chiron caught my arm. ‘I should
have trained you better, Percy,’ he said. ‘If only I had more
time. Hercules, Jason – they all got more training.’
‘That’s okay. I just wish –’
I stopped myself because I was about to sound like a brat.
I was wishing my dad had given me a cool magic item to
help on the quest, something as good as Luke’s ﬂying
shoes, or Annabeth’s invisible cap.
‘What am I thinking?’ Chiron cried. ‘I can’t let you get
away without this.’
He pulled a pen from his coat pocket and handed it to me.
It was an ordinary disposable ballpoint, black ink, removable
cap. Probably cost thirty cents.
‘Gee,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
‘Percy, that’s a gift from your father. I’ve kept it for years,
not knowing you were who I was waiting for. But the
prophecy is clear to me now. You are the one.’
I remembered the ﬁeld trip to the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, when I’d vaporized Mrs Dodds. Chiron had thrown me a
pen that turned into a sword. Could this be…?
I took oﬀ the cap, and the pen grew longer and heavier in
my hand. In half a second, I held a shimmering bronze
sword with a double-edged blade, a leather-wrapped grip
and a ﬂat hilt riveted with gold studs. It was the ﬁrst weapon
that actually felt balanced in my hand.
‘The sword has a long and tragic history that we need not
go into,’ Chiron told me. ‘Its name is Anaklusmos.’
‘“Riptide”,’ I translated, surprised the Ancient Greek came
so easily.
‘Use it only for emergencies,’ Chiron said, ‘and only
against monsters. No hero should harm mortals unless
absolutely necessary, of course, but this sword wouldn’t
harm them in any case.’
136
I looked at the wickedly sharp blade. ‘What do you mean it
wouldn’t harm mortals? How could it not?’
‘The sword is celestial bronze. Forged by the Cyclopes,
tempered in the heart of Mount Etna, cooled in the River
Lethe. It’s deadly to monsters, to any creature from the
Underworld, provided they don’t kill you ﬁrst. But the blade
will pass through mortals like an illusion. They simply are
not important enough for the blade to kill. And I should warn
you: as a demigod, you can be killed by either celestial or
normal weapons. You are twice as vulnerable.’
‘Good to know.’
‘Now recap the pen.’
I touched the pen cap to the sword tip and instantly
Riptide shrank to a ballpoint pen again. I tucked it in my
pocket, a little nervous, because I was famous for losing
pens at school.
‘You can’t,’ Chiron said.
‘Can’t what?’
‘Lose the pen,’ he said. ‘It is enchanted. It will always
reappear in your pocket. Try it.’
I was wary, but I threw the pen as far as I could down the
hill and watched it disappear in the grass.
‘It may take a few moments,’ Chiron told me. ‘Now check
your pocket.’
Sure enough, the pen was there.
‘Okay, that’s extremely cool,’ I admitted. ‘But what if a
mortal sees me pulling out a sword?’
Chiron smiled. ‘Mist is a powerful thing, Percy.’
‘Mist?’
‘Yes. Read The Iliad. It’s full of references to the stuﬀ.
Whenever divine or monstrous elements mix with the mortal
world, they generate Mist, which obscures the vision of
humans. You will see things just as they are, being a half-
blood, but humans will interpret things quite diﬀerently.
Remarkable, really, the lengths to which humans will go to
ﬁt things into their version of reality.’
137
I put Riptide back in my pocket.
For the ﬁrst time, the quest felt real. I was actually leaving
Half-Blood Hill. I was heading west with no adult supervision,
no backup plan, not even a cell phone. (Chiron said cell
phones were traceable by monsters; if we used one, it would
be worse than sending up a ﬂare.) I had no weapon stronger
than a sword to ﬁght oﬀ monsters and reach the Land of the
Dead.
‘Chiron…’ I said. ‘When you say the gods are immortal… I
mean, there was a time before them, right?’
‘Four ages before them, actually. The Time of the Titans
was the Fourth Age, sometimes called the Golden Age,
which is deﬁnitely a misnomer. This, the time of Western
civilization and the rule of Zeus, is the Fifth Age’.
‘So what was it like… before the gods?’
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘Even I am not old enough to
remember that, child, but I know it was a time of darkness
and savagery for mortals. Kronos, the lord of the Titans,
called his reign the Golden Age because men lived innocent
and free of all knowledge. But that was mere propaganda.
The Titan king cared nothing for your kind except as
appetizers or a source of cheap entertainment. It was only
in the early reign of Lord Zeus, when Prometheus the good
Titan brought ﬁre to mankind, that your species began to
progress, and even then Prometheus was branded a radical
thinker. Zeus punished him severely, as you may recall. Of
course, eventually the gods warmed to humans, and
Western civilization was born.’
‘But the gods can’t die now, right? I mean, as long as
Western civilization is alive, they’re alive. So… even if I
failed, nothing could happen so bad it would mess up
everything, right?’
Chiron gave me a melancholy smile. ‘No one knows how
long the Age of the West will last, Percy. The gods are
immortal, yes. But then, so were the Titans. They still exist,
locked away in their various prisons, forced to endure
138
endless pain and punishment, reduced in power, but still
very much alive. May the Fates forbid that the gods should
ever suﬀer such a doom, or that we should ever return to
the darkness and chaos of the past. All we can do, child, is
follow our destiny.’
‘Our destiny… assuming we know what that is.’
‘Relax,’ Chiron told me. ‘Keep a clear head. And
remember, you may be about to prevent the biggest war in
human history.’
‘Relax,’ I said. ‘I’m very relaxed.’
When I got to the bottom of the hill, I looked back. Under
the pine tree that used to be Thalia, daughter of Zeus,
Chiron was now standing in full horse-man form, holding his
bow high in salute. Just your typical summer-camp send-oﬀ
by your typical centaur.
* * *
 
Argus drove us out of the countryside and into western Long
Island. It felt weird to be on a highway again, Annabeth and
Grover sitting next to me as if we were normal carpoolers.
After two weeks at Half-Blood Hill, the real world seemed
like a fantasy. I found myself staring at every McDonald’s,
every kid in the back of his parents’ car, every billboard and
shopping mall.
‘So far so good,’ I told Annabeth. ‘Ten miles and not a
single monster.’
She gave me an irritated look. ‘It’s bad luck to talk that
way, seaweed brain.’
‘Remind me again – why do you hate me so much?’
‘I don’t hate you.’
‘Could’ve fooled me.’
She folded her cap of invisibility. ‘Look… we’re just not
supposed to get along, okay? Our parents are rivals.’
‘Why?’
139
She sighed. ‘How many reasons do you want? One time
my mom caught Poseidon with his girlfriend in Athena’s
temple, which is hugely disrespectful. Another time, Athena
and Poseidon competed to be the patron god for the city of
Athens. Your dad created some stupid saltwater spring for
his gift. My mom created the olive tree. The people saw that
her gift was better, so they named the city after her.’
‘They must really like olives.’
‘Oh, forget it.’
‘Now, if she’d invented pizza – that I could understand.’
‘I said, forget it!’
In the front seat, Argus smiled. He didn’t say anything, but
one blue eye on the back of his neck winked at me.
Traﬃc slowed us down in Queens. By the time we got into
Manhattan it was sunset and starting to rain.
Argus dropped us at the Greyhound Station on the Upper
East Side, not far from my mom and Gabe’s apartment.
Taped to a mailbox was a soggy ﬂyer with my picture on it:
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS BOY?
I ripped it down before Annabeth and Grover could notice.
Argus unloaded our bags, made sure we got our bus
tickets, then drove away, the eye on the back of his hand
opening to watch us as he pulled out of the parking lot.
I thought about how close I was to my old apartment. On
a normal day, my mom would be home from the candy store
by now. Smelly Gabe was probably up there right now,
playing poker, not even missing her.
Grover shouldered his backpack. He gazed down the
street in the direction I was looking. ‘You want to know why
she married him, Percy?’
I stared at him. ‘Were you reading my mind or
something?’
‘Just your emotions.’ He shrugged. ‘Guess I forgot to tell
you satyrs can do that. You were thinking about your mom
and your stepdad, right?’
140
I nodded, wondering what else Grover might’ve forgotten
to tell me.
‘Your mom married Gabe for you,’ Grover told me. ‘You
call him “Smelly”, but you’ve got no idea. The guy has this
aura… Yuck. I can smell him from here. I can smell traces of
him on you, and you haven’t been near him for a fortnight.’
‘Thanks,’ I said. ‘Where’s the nearest shower?’
‘You should be grateful, Percy. Your stepfather smells so
repulsively human he could mask the presence of any
demigod. As soon as I took a whiﬀ inside his Camaro, I
knew: Gabe has been covering your scent for years. If you
hadn’t lived with him every summer, you probably would’ve
been found by monsters a long time ago. Your mom stayed
with him to protect you. She was a smart lady. She must’ve
loved you a lot to put up with that guy – if that makes you
feel any better.’
It didn’t, but I forced myself not to show it. I’ll see her
again, I thought. She isn’t gone.
I wondered if Grover could still read my emotions, mixed
up as they were. I was glad he and Annabeth were with me,
but I felt guilty that I hadn’t been straight with them. I
hadn’t told them the real reason I’d said yes to this crazy
quest.
The truth was, I didn’t care about retrieving Zeus’s
lightning bolt, or saving the world, or even helping my
father out of trouble. The more I thought about it, I resented
Poseidon for never visiting me, never helping my mom,
never even sending a lousy child-support cheque. He’d only
claimed me because he needed a job done.
All I cared about was my mom. Hades had taken her
unfairly, and Hades was going to give her back.
You will be betrayed by one who calls you a friend, the
Oracle whispered in my mind. You will fail to save what
matters most in the end.
Shut up, I told it.
141
The rain kept coming down.
We got restless waiting for the bus and decided to play
some Hacky Sack with one of Grover’s apples. Annabeth
was unbelievable. She could bounce the apple oﬀ her knee,
her elbow, her shoulder, whatever. I wasn’t too bad myself.
The game ended when I tossed the apple towards Grover
and it got too close to his mouth. In one mega goat bite, our
Hacky Sack disappeared – core, stem and all.
Grover blushed. He tried to apologize, but Annabeth and I
were too busy cracking up.
Finally the bus came. As we stood in line to board, Grover
started looking around, sniﬃng the air like he smelled his
favourite school cafeteria delicacy – enchiladas.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
‘I don’t know,’ he said tensely. ‘Maybe it’s nothing.’
But I could tell it wasn’t nothing. I started looking over my
shoulder, too.
I was relieved when we ﬁnally got on board and found
seats together in the back of the bus. We stowed our
backpacks. Annabeth kept slapping her Yankees cap
nervously against her thigh.
As the last passengers got on, Annabeth clamped her
hand onto my knee. ‘Percy.’
An old lady had just boarded the bus. She wore a
crumpled velvet dress, lace gloves and a shapeless orange-
knit hat that shadowed her face, and she carried a big
paisley purse. When she tilted her head up, her black eyes
glittered, and my heart skipped a beat.
It was Mrs Dodds. Older, more withered, but deﬁnitely the
same evil face.
I scrunched down in my seat.
Behind her came two more old ladies: one in a green hat,
one in a purple hat. Otherwise they looked exactly like Mrs
Dodds – same gnarled hands, paisley handbags, wrinkled
velvet dresses. Triplet demon grandmothers.
142
They sat in the front row, right behind the driver. The two
on the aisle crossed their legs over the walkway, making an
X. It was casual enough, but it sent a clear message:
nobody leaves.
The bus pulled out of the station, and we headed through
the slick streets of Manhattan. ‘She didn’t stay dead long,’ I
said, trying to keep my voice from quivering. ‘I thought you
said they could be dispelled for a lifetime.’
‘I said if you’re lucky,’ Annabeth said. ‘You’re obviously
not.’
‘All three of them,’ Grover whimpered. ‘Di immortales!’
‘It’s okay,’ Annabeth said, obviously thinking hard. ‘The
Furies. The three worst monsters from the Underworld. No
problem. No problem. We’ll just slip out the windows.’
‘They don’t open,’ Grover moaned.
‘A back exit?’ she suggested.
There wasn’t one. Even if there had been, it wouldn’t have
helped. By that time, we were on Ninth Avenue, heading for
the Lincoln Tunnel.
‘They won’t attack us with witnesses around,’ I said. ‘Will
they?’
‘Mortals don’t have good eyes,’ Annabeth reminded me.
‘Their brains can only process what they see through the
Mist.’
‘They’ll see three old ladies killing us, won’t they?’
She thought about it. ‘Hard to say. But we can’t count on
mortals for help. Maybe an emergency exit in the roof…?’
We hit the Lincoln Tunnel, and the bus went dark except
for the running lights down the aisle. It was eerily quiet
without the sound of the rain.
Mrs Dodds got up. In a ﬂat voice, as if she’d rehearsed it,
she announced to the whole bus: ‘I need to use the
restroom.’
‘So do I,’ said the second sister.
‘So do I,’ said the third sister.
They all started coming down the aisle.
143
‘I’ve got it,’ Annabeth said. ‘Percy, take my hat.’
‘What?’
‘You’re the one they want. Turn invisible and go up the
aisle. Let them pass you. Maybe you can get to the front
and get away.’
‘But you guys –’
‘There’s an outside chance they might not notice us,’
Annabeth said. ‘You’re a son of one of the Big Three. Your
smell might be overpowering.’
‘I can’t just leave you.’
‘Don’t worry about us,’ Grover said. ‘Go!’
My hands trembled. I felt like a coward, but I took the
Yankees cap and put it on.
When I looked down, my body wasn’t there any more.
I started creeping up the aisle. I managed to get up ten
rows, then duck into an empty seat just as the Furies walked
past.
Mrs Dodds stopped, sniﬃng, and looked straight at me.
My heart was pounding.
Apparently she didn’t see anything. She and her sisters
kept going.
I was free. I made it to the front of the bus. We were
almost through the Lincoln Tunnel now. I was about to press
the emergency stop button when I heard hideous wailing
from the back row.
The old ladies were not old ladies any more. Their faces
were still the same – I guess those couldn’t get any uglier –
but their bodies had shrivelled into leathery brown hag
bodies with bat’s wings and hands and feet like gargoyle
claws. Their handbags had turned into ﬁery whips.
The Furies surrounded Grover and Annabeth, lashing their
whips, hissing: ‘Where is it? Where?’
The other people on the bus were screaming, cowering in
their seats. They saw something, all right.
‘He’s not here!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘He’s gone!’
The Furies raised their whips.
144
Annabeth drew her bronze knife. Grover grabbed a tin can
from his snack bag and prepared to throw it.
What I did next was so impulsive and dangerous I
should’ve been named ADHD poster child of the year.
The bus driver was distracted, trying to see what was
going on in his rearview mirror.
Still invisible, I grabbed the wheel from him and jerked it
to the left. Everybody howled as they were thrown to the
right, and I heard what I hoped was the sound of three
Furies smashing against the windows.
‘Hey!’ the driver yelled. ‘Hey – whoa!’
We wrestled for the wheel. The bus slammed against the
side of the tunnel, grinding metal, throwing sparks a mile
behind us.
We careened out of the Lincoln Tunnel and back into the
rainstorm, people and monsters tossed around the bus, cars
ploughed aside like bowling pins.
Somehow the driver found an exit. We shot oﬀ the
highway, through half a dozen traﬃc lights, and ended up
barrelling down one of those New Jersey rural roads where
you can’t believe there’s so much nothing right across the
river from New York. There were woods to our left, the
Hudson River to our right and the driver seemed to be
veering towards the river.
Another great idea: I hit the emergency brake.
The bus wailed, spun a full circle on the wet tar and
crashed into the trees. The emergency lights came on. The
door ﬂew open. The bus driver was the ﬁrst one out, the
passengers yelling as they stampeded after him. I stepped
into the driver’s seat and let them pass.
The Furies regained their balance. They lashed their whips
at Annabeth while she waved her knife and yelled in Ancient
Greek, telling them to back oﬀ. Grover threw tin cans.
I looked at the open doorway. I was free to go, but I
couldn’t leave my friends. I took oﬀ the invisible cap. ‘Hey!’
145
The Furies turned, baring their yellow fangs at me, and
the exit suddenly sounded like an excellent idea. Mrs Dodds
stalked up the aisle, just as she used to do in class, about to
deliver my F- maths test. Every time she ﬂicked her whip,
red ﬂames danced along the barbed leather.
Her two ugly sisters hopped on top of the seats on either
side of her and crawled towards me like huge nasty lizards.
‘Perseus Jackson,’ Mrs Dodds said, in an accent that was
deﬁnitely from somewhere further south than Georgia. ‘You
have oﬀended the gods. You shall die.’
‘I liked you better as a maths teacher,’ I told her.
She growled.
Annabeth and Grover moved up behind the Furies
cautiously, looking for an opening.
I took the ballpoint pen out of my pocket and uncapped it.
Riptide elongated into a shimmering double-edged sword.
The Furies hesitated.
Mrs Dodds had felt Riptide’s blade before. She obviously
didn’t like seeing it again.
‘Submit now,’ she hissed. ‘And you will not suﬀer eternal
torment.’
‘Nice try,’ I told her.
‘Percy, look out!’ Annabeth cried.
Mrs Dodds lashed her whip around my sword hand while
the Furies on the either side lunged at me.
My hand felt like it was wrapped in molten lead, but I
managed not to drop Riptide. I struck the Fury on the left
with its hilt, sending her toppling backwards into a seat. I
turned and sliced the Fury on the right. As soon as the blade
connected with her neck, she screamed and exploded into
dust. Annabeth got Mrs Dodds in a wrestler’s hold and
yanked her backwards while Grover ripped the whip out of
her hands.
‘Ow!’ he yelled. ‘Ow! Hot! Hot!’
The Fury I’d hilt-slammed came at me again, talons ready,
but I swung Riptide and she broke open like a piñata.
146
Mrs Dodds was trying to get Annabeth oﬀ her back. She
kicked, clawed, hissed and bit, but Annabeth held on while
Grover got Mrs Dodds’s legs tied up in her own whip. Finally
they both shoved her backwards into the aisle. Mrs Dodds
tried to get up, but she didn’t have room to ﬂap her bat
wings, so she kept falling down.
‘Zeus will destroy you!’ she promised. ‘Hades will have
your soul!’
‘Braccas meas vescimini!’ I yelled.
I wasn’t sure where the Latin came from. I think it meant
‘Eat my pants!’
Thunder shook the bus. The hair rose on the back of my
neck.
‘Get out!’ Annabeth yelled at me. ‘Now!’ I didn’t need any
encouragement.
We rushed outside and found the other passengers
wandering around in a daze, arguing with the driver, or
running around in circles yelling, ‘We’re going to die!’ A
Hawaiian-shirted tourist with a camera snapped my
photograph before I could recap my sword.
‘Our bags!’ Grover realized. ‘We left our –’
BOOOOOM!
The windows of the bus exploded as the passengers ran
for cover. Lightning shredded a huge crater in the roof, but
an angry wail from inside told me Mrs Dodds was not yet
dead.
‘Run!’ Annabeth said. ‘She’s calling for reinforcements!
We have to get out of here!’
We plunged into the woods as the rain poured down, the
bus in ﬂames behind us and nothing but darkness ahead.
147
11    We Visit the Garden Gnome Emporium
 
In a way, it’s nice to know there are Greek gods out there,
because you have somebody to blame when things go
wrong. For instance, when you’re walking away from a bus
that’s just been attacked by monster hags and blown up by
lightning, and it’s raining on top of everything else, most
people might think that’s just really bad luck; when you’re a
half-blood, you understand that some divine force really is
trying to mess up your day.
So there we were, Annabeth and Grover and I, walking
through the woods on the New Jersey riverbank, the glow of
New York City making the night sky yellow behind us and
the smell of the Hudson reeking in our noses.
Grover was shivering and braying, his big goat eyes
turned slit-pupilled and full of terror. ‘Three Kindly Ones. All
three at once.’
I was pretty much in shock myself. The explosion of bus
windows still rang in my ears. But Annabeth kept pulling us
along, saying: ‘Come on! The further away we get, the
better.’
‘All our money was back there,’ I reminded her. ‘Our food
and clothes. Everything.’
‘Well, maybe if you hadn’t decided to jump into the ﬁght –’
‘What did you want me to do? Let you get killed?’
‘You didn’t need to protect me, Percy. I would’ve been
ﬁne.’
‘Sliced like sandwich bread,’ Grover put in, ‘but ﬁne.’
‘Shut up, goat boy,’ said Annabeth.
148
Grover brayed mournfully. ‘Tin cans… a perfectly good
bag of tin cans.’
We sloshed across mushy ground, through nasty twisted
trees that smelled like sour laundry.
After a few minutes, Annabeth fell into line next to me.
‘Look, I…’ Her voice faltered. ‘I appreciate your coming back
for us, okay? That was really brave.’
‘We’re a team, right?’
She was silent for a few more steps. ‘It’s just that if you
died… aside from the fact that it would really suck for you, it
would mean the quest was over. This may be my only
chance to see the real world.’
The thunderstorm had ﬁnally let up. The city glow faded
behind us, leaving us in almost total darkness. I couldn’t see
anything of Annabeth except a glint of her blonde hair.
‘You haven’t left Camp Half-Blood since you were seven?’ I
asked her.
‘No… only short ﬁeld trips. My dad –’
‘The history professor.’
‘Yeah. It didn’t work out for me living at home. I mean,
Camp Half-Blood is my home.’ She was rushing her words
out now, as if she were afraid somebody might try to stop
her. ‘At camp you train and train. And that’s all cool and
everything, but the real world is where the monsters are.
That’s where you learn whether you’re any good or not.’
If I didn’t know better, I could’ve sworn I heard doubt in
her voice.
‘You’re pretty good with that knife,’ I said.
‘You think so?’
‘Anybody who can piggyback-ride a Fury is okay by me.’
I couldn’t really see, but I thought she might’ve smiled.
‘You know,’ she said, ‘maybe I should tell you… Something
funny back on the bus…’
Whatever she wanted to say was interrupted by a shrill
toot˜toot˜toot, like the sound of an owl being tortured.
149
‘Hey, my reed pipes still work!’ Grover cried. ‘If I could just
remember a “ﬁnd path” song, we could get out of these
woods!’
He puﬀed out a few notes, but the tune still sounded
suspiciously like Hilary Duﬀ.
Instead of ﬁnding a path, I immediately slammed into a
tree and got a nice-size knot on my head.
Add to the list of superpowers I did not have: infrared
vision.
After tripping and cursing and generally feeling miserable
for another mile or so, I started to see light up ahead: the
colours of a neon sign. I could smell food. Fried, greasy,
excellent food. I realized I hadn’t eaten anything unhealthy
since I’d arrived at Half-Blood Hill, where we lived on grapes,
bread, 
cheese 
and 
extra-lean-cut 
nymph-prepared
barbecue. This boy needed a double cheeseburger.
We kept walking until I saw a deserted two-lane road
through the trees. On the other side was a closed-down gas
station, a tattered billboard for a 1990s movie and one open
business, which was the source of the neon light and the
good smell.
It wasn’t a fast-food restaurant like I’d hoped. It was one
of those weird roadside curio shops that sell lawn ﬂamingos
and wooden Indians and cement grizzly bears and stuﬀ like
that. The main building was a long, low warehouse,
surrounded by acres of statuary. The neon sign above the
gate was impossible for me to read, because if there’s
anything worse for my dyslexia than regular English, it’s red
cursive neon English.
To me, it looked like: ATNYU MES GDERAN GOMEN
MEPROIUM.
‘What the heck does that say?’ I asked.
‘I don’t know,’ Annabeth said.
She loved reading so much, I’d forgotten she was dyslexic,
too.
Grover translated: ‘Aunty Em’s Garden Gnome Emporium.’
150
Flanking the entrance, as advertised, were two cement
garden gnomes, ugly bearded little runts, smiling and
waving, as if they were about to get their picture taken.
I 
crossed 
the 
street, 
following 
the 
smell 
of 
the
hamburgers.
‘Hey…’ Grover warned.
‘The lights are on inside,’ Annabeth said. ‘Maybe it’s
open.’
‘Snack bar,’ I said wistfully.
‘Snack bar,’ she agreed.
‘Are you two crazy?’ Grover said. ‘This place is weird.’
We ignored him.
The front garden was a forest of statues: cement animals,
cement children, even a cement satyr playing the pipes,
which gave Grover the creeps.
‘Bla-ha-ha!’ he bleated. ‘Looks like my Uncle Ferdinand!’
We stopped at the warehouse door.
‘Don’t knock,’ Grover pleaded. ‘I smell monsters.’
‘Your nose is clogged up from the Furies,’ Annabeth told
him. ‘All I smell is burgers. Aren’t you hungry?’
‘Meat!’ he said scornfully. ‘I’m a vegetarian.’
‘You eat cheese enchiladas and aluminium cans,’ I
reminded him.
‘Those are vegetables. Come on. Let’s leave. These
statues are… looking at me.’
Then the door creaked open, and standing in front of us
was a tall Middle Eastern woman – at least, I assumed she
was Middle Eastern, because she wore a long black gown
that covered everything but her hands, and her head was
completely veiled. Her eyes glinted behind a curtain of black
gauze, but that was about all I could make out. Her coﬀee-
coloured hands looked old, but well-manicured and elegant,
so I imagined she was a grandmother who had once been a
beautiful lady.
Her accent sounded vaguely Middle Eastern, too. She said,
‘Children, it is too late to be out all alone. Where are your
151
parents?’
‘They’re… um…’ Annabeth started to say.
‘We’re orphans,’ I said.
‘Orphans?’ the woman said. The word sounded alien in her
mouth. ‘But, my dears! Surely not!’
‘We got separated from our caravan,’ I said. ‘Our circus
caravan. The ringmaster told us to meet him at the gas
station if we got lost, but he may have forgotten, or maybe
he meant a diﬀerent gas station. Anyway, we’re lost. Is that
food I smell?’
‘Oh, my dears,’ the woman said. ‘You must come in, poor
children. I am Aunty Em. Go straight through to the back of
the warehouse, please. There is a dining area.’
We thanked her and went inside.
Annabeth muttered to me, ‘Circus caravan?’
‘Always have a strategy, right?’
‘Your head is full of kelp.’
The warehouse was ﬁlled with more statues – people in all
diﬀerent poses, wearing all diﬀerent outﬁts and with
diﬀerent expressions on their faces. I was thinking you’d
have to have a pretty huge garden to ﬁt even one of these
statues, because they were all life-size. But mostly I was
thinking about food.
Go ahead, call me an idiot for walking into a strange
lady’s shop like that just because I was hungry, but I do
impulsive stuﬀ sometimes. Plus, you’ve never smelled Aunty
Em’s burgers. The aroma was like laughing gas in the
dentist’s chair – it made everything else go away. I barely
noticed Grover’s nervous whimpers, or the way the statues’
eyes seemed to follow me, or the fact that Aunty Em had
locked the door behind us.
All I cared about was ﬁnding the dining area. And, sure
enough, there it was at the back of the warehouse, a fast-
food counter with a grill, a soda fountain, a pretzel heater
and a nacho cheese dispenser. Everything you could want,
plus a few steel picnic tables out front.
152
‘Please, sit down,’ Aunty Em said.
‘Awesome,’ I said.
‘Um,’ Grover said reluctantly, ‘we don’t have any money,
ma’am.’
Before I could jab him in the ribs, Aunty Em said, ‘No, no,
children. No money. This is a special case, yes? It is my
treat, for such nice orphans.’
‘Thank you, ma’am,’ Annabeth said.
Aunty Em stiﬀened, as if Annabeth had done something
wrong, but then the old woman relaxed just as quickly, so I
ﬁgured it must’ve been my imagination.
‘Quite all right, Annabeth,’ she said. ‘You have such
beautiful grey eyes, child.’ Only later did I wonder how she
knew Annabeth’s name, even though we had never
introduced ourselves.
Our hostess disappeared behind the snack counter and
started cooking. Before we knew it, she’d brought us plastic
trays heaped with double cheeseburgers, vanilla shakes and
XXL servings of French fries.
I was halfway through my burger before I remembered to
breathe.
Annabeth slurped her shake.
Grover picked at the fries, and eyed the tray’s waxed
paper liner as if he might go for that, but he still looked too
nervous to eat.
‘What’s that hissing noise?’ he asked.
I listened, but didn’t hear anything. Annabeth shook her
head.
‘Hissing?’ Aunty Em asked. ‘Perhaps you hear the deep-
fryer oil. You have keen ears, Grover.’
‘I take vitamins. For my ears.’
‘That’s admirable,’ she said. ‘But please, relax.’
Aunty Em ate nothing. She hadn’t taken oﬀ her headdress,
even to cook, and now she sat forward and interlaced her
ﬁngers and watched us eat. It was a little unsettling, having
someone stare at me when I couldn’t see her face, but I was
153
feeling satisﬁed after the burger, and a little sleepy, and I
ﬁgured the least I could do was try to make small talk with
our hostess.
‘So, you sell gnomes,’ I said, trying to sound interested.
‘Oh, yes,’ ‘Aunty Em said. And animals. And people.
Anything for the garden. Custom orders. Statuary is very
popular, you know.’
‘A lot of business on this road?’
‘Not so much, no. Since the highway was built… most
cars, they do not go this way now. I must cherish every
customer I get.’
My neck tingled, as if somebody else was looking at me. I
turned, but it was just a statue of a young girl holding an
Easter basket. The detail was incredible, much better than
you see in most garden statues. But something was wrong
with her face. It looked as if she were startled, or even
terriﬁed.
‘Ah,’ Aunty Em said sadly. ‘You notice some of my
creations do not turn out well. They are marred. They do not
sell. The face is the hardest to get right. Always the face.’
‘You make these statues yourself?’ I asked.
‘Oh, yes. Once upon a time, I had two sisters to help me in
the business, but they have passed on, and Aunty Em is
alone. I have only my statues. This is why I make them, you
see. They are my company.’ The sadness in her voice
sounded so deep and so real that I couldn’t help feeling
sorry for her.
Annabeth had stopped eating. She sat forward and said,
‘Two sisters?’
‘It’s a terrible story,’ Aunty Em said. ‘Not one for children,
really. You see, Annabeth, a bad woman was jealous of me,
long ago, when I was young. I had a… a boyfriend, you
know, and this bad woman was determined to break us
apart. She caused a terrible accident. My sisters stayed by
me. They shared my bad fortune as long as they could, but
154
eventually they passed on. They faded away. I alone have
survived, but at a price. Such a price.’
I wasn’t sure what she meant, but I felt bad for her. My
eyelids kept getting heavier, my full stomach making me
sleepy. Poor old lady. Who would want to hurt somebody so
nice?
‘Percy?’ Annabeth was shaking me to get my attention.
‘Maybe we should go. I mean, the ringmaster will be
waiting.’
She sounded tense. I wasn’t sure why. Grover was eating
the waxed paper oﬀ the tray now, but if Aunty Em found
that strange, she didn’t say anything.
‘Such beautiful grey eyes,’ Aunty Em told Annabeth again.
‘My, yes, it has been a long time since I’ve seen grey eyes
like those.’
She reached out as if to stroke Annabeth’s cheek, but
Annabeth stood up abruptly.
‘We really should go.’
‘Yes!’ Grover swallowed his waxed paper and stood up.
‘The ringmaster is waiting! Right!’
I didn’t want to leave. I felt full and content. Aunty Em was
so nice. I wanted to stay with her a while.
‘Please, dears,’ Aunty Em pleaded. ‘I so rarely get to be
with children. Before you go, won’t you at least sit for a
pose?’
‘A pose?’ Annabeth asked warily.
‘A photograph. I will use it to model a new statue set.
Children are so popular, you see. Everyone loves children.’
Annabeth shifted her weight from foot to foot. ‘I don’t
think we can, ma’am. Come on, Percy –’
‘Sure we can,’ I said. I was irritated with Annabeth for
being so bossy, so rude to an old lady who’d just fed us for
free. ‘It’s just a photo, Annabeth. What’s the harm?’
‘Yes, Annabeth,’ the woman purred. ‘No harm.’
I could tell Annabeth didn’t like it, but she allowed Aunty
Em to lead us back out the front door, into the garden of
155
statues.
Aunty Em directed us to a park bench next to the stone
satyr. ‘Now,’ she said, ‘I’ll just position you correctly. The
young girl in the middle, I think, and the two young
gentlemen on either side.’
‘Not much light for a photo,’ I remarked.
‘Oh, enough,’ Aunty Em said. ‘Enough for us to see each
other, yes?’
‘Where’s your camera?’ Grover asked.
Aunty Em stepped back, as if to admire the shot. ‘Now,
the face is the most diﬃcult. Can you smile for me please,
everyone? A large smile?’
Grover glanced at the cement satyr next to him, and
mumbled, ‘That sure does look like Uncle Ferdinand.’
‘Grover,’ Aunty Em chastised, ‘look this way, dear.’
She still had no camera in her hands.
‘Percy –’ Annabeth said.
Some instinct warned me to listen to Annabeth, but I was
ﬁghting the sleepy feeling, the comfortable lull that came
from the food and the old lady’s voice.
‘I will just be a moment,’ Aunty Em said. ‘You know, I can’t
see you very well in this cursed veil…’
‘Percy, something’s wrong,’ Annabeth insisted.
‘Wrong?’ Aunty Em said, reaching up to undo the wrap
around her head. ‘Not at all, dear. I have such noble
company tonight. What could be wrong?’
‘That is Uncle Ferdinand!’ Grover gasped.
‘Look away from her!’ Annabeth shouted. She whipped
her Yankees cap on to her head and vanished. Her invisible
hands pushed Grover and me both oﬀ the bench.
I was on the ground, looking at Aunt Em’s sandalled feet.
I could hear Grover scrambling oﬀ in one direction,
Annabeth in another. But I was too dazed to move.
Then I heard a strange, rasping sound above me. My eyes
rose to Aunty Em’s hands, which had turned gnarled and
warty, with sharp bronze talons for ﬁngernails.
156
I almost looked higher, but somewhere oﬀ to my left
Annabeth screamed, ‘No! Don’t!’
More rasping – the sound of tiny snakes, right above me,
from… from about where Aunty Em’s head would be.
‘Run!’ Grover bleated. I heard him racing across the
gravel, yelling, ‘Maia!’ to kick-start his ﬂying sneakers.
I couldn’t move. I stared at Aunty Em’s gnarled claws, and
tried to ﬁght the groggy trance the old woman had put me
in.
‘Such a pity to destroy a handsome young face,’ she told
me soothingly. ‘Stay with me, Percy. All you have to do is
look up.’
I fought the urge to obey. Instead I looked to one side and
saw one of those glass spheres people put in gardens – a
gazing ball. I could see Aunty Em’s dark reﬂection in the
orange glass; her headdress was gone, revealing her face as
a shimmering pale circle. Her hair was moving, writhing like
serpents.
Aunty Em.
Aunty ‘M’.
How could I have been so stupid?
Think, I told myself. How did Medusa die in the myth?
But I couldn’t think. Something told me that in the myth
Medusa had been asleep when she was attacked by my
namesake, Perseus. She wasn’t anywhere near asleep now.
If she wanted, she could take those talons right now and
rake open my face.
‘The Grey-Eyed One did this to me, Percy,’ Medusa said,
and she didn’t sound anything like a monster. Her voice
invited me to look up, to sympathize with a poor old
grandmother. ‘Annabeth’s mother, the cursed Athena,
turned me from a beautiful woman into this.’
‘Don’t 
listen 
to 
her!’ 
Annabeth’s 
voice 
shouted,
somewhere in the statuary. ‘Run, Percy!’
‘Silence!’ Medusa snarled. Then her voice modulated back
to a comforting purr. ‘You see why I must destroy the girl,
157
Percy. She is my enemy’s daughter. I shall crush her statue
to dust. But you, dear Percy, you need not suﬀer.’
‘No,’ I muttered. I tried to make my legs move.
‘Do you really want to help the gods?’ Medusa asked. ‘Do
you understand what awaits you on this foolish quest,
Percy? What will happen if you reach the Underworld? Do
not be a pawn of the Olympians, my dear. You would be
better oﬀ as a statue. Less pain. Less pain.’
‘Percy!’ Behind me, I heard a buzzing sound, like a ninety-
kilogram hummingbird in a nosedive. Grover yelled, ‘Duck!’
I turned, and there he was in the night sky, ﬂying in from
twelve o’clock with his winged shoes ﬂuttering – Grover,
holding a tree branch the size of a baseball bat. His eyes
were shut tight, his head twitched from side to side. He was
navigating by ears and nose alone.
‘Duck!’ he yelled again. ‘I’ll get her!’
That ﬁnally jolted me into action. Knowing Grover, I was
sure he’d miss Medusa and nail me. I dove to one side.
Thwack!
At ﬁrst I ﬁgured it was the sound of Grover hitting a tree.
Then Medusa roared with rage.
‘You miserable satyr,’ she snarled. ‘I’ll add you to my
collection!’
‘That was for Uncle Ferdinand!’ Grover yelled back.
I scrambled away and hid in the statuary while Grover
swooped down for another pass.
Ker-whack!
‘Arrgh!’ Medusa yelled, her snake-hair hissing and
spitting.
Right next to me, Annabeth’s voice said, ‘Percy!’
I jumped so high my feet nearly cleared a garden gnome.
‘Jeez! Don’t do that!’
Annabeth took oﬀ her Yankees cap and became visible.
‘You have to cut her head oﬀ’
‘What? Are you crazy? Let’s get out of here.’
158
‘Medusa is a menace. She’s evil. I’d kill her myself, but…’
Annabeth swallowed, as if she were about to make a diﬃcult
admission. ‘But you’ve got the better weapon. Besides, I’d
never get close to her. She’d slice me to bits because of my
mother. You – you’ve got a chance.’
‘What? I can’t –’
‘Look, do you want her turning more innocent people into
statues?’
She pointed to a pair of statue lovers, a man and a woman
with their arms around each other, turned to stone by the
monster.
Annabeth grabbed a green gazing ball from a nearby
pedestal. ‘A polished shield would be better.’ She studied
the sphere critically. ‘The convexity will cause some
distortion. The reﬂection’s size should be oﬀ by a factor of –’
‘Would you speak English?’
‘I am!’ She tossed me the glass ball. ‘Just look at her in
the glass. Never look at her directly.’
‘Hey, guys!’ Grover yelled somewhere above us. ‘I think
she’s unconscious!’
‘Roooaaarrr!’
‘Maybe not,’ Grover corrected. He went in for another
pass with the tree branch.
‘Hurry,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Grover’s got a great nose, but
he’ll eventually crash.’
I took out my pen and uncapped it. The bronze blade of
Riptide elongated in my hand.
I followed the hissing and spitting sounds of Medusa’s
hair.
I kept my eyes locked on the gazing ball so I would only
glimpse Medusa’s reﬂection, not the real thing. Then, in the
green tinted glass, I saw her.
Grover was coming in for another turn at bat, but this time
he ﬂew a little too low. Medusa grabbed the stick and pulled
him oﬀ course. He tumbled through the air and crashed into
the arms of a stone grizzly bear with a painful ‘Ummphh!’
159
Medusa was about to lunge at him when I yelled, ‘Hey!’
I advanced on her, which wasn’t easy, holding a sword
and a glass ball. If she charged, I’d have a hard time
defending myself.
But she let me approach – ten metres, ﬁve metres.
I could see the reﬂection of her face now. Surely it wasn’t
really that ugly. The green swirls of the gazing ball must be
distorting it, making it look worse.
‘You wouldn’t harm an old woman, Percy,’ she crooned. ‘I
know you wouldn’t.’
I hesitated, fascinated by the face I saw reﬂected in the
glass – the eyes that seemed to burn straight through the
green tint, making my arms go weak.
From the cement grizzly, Grover moaned, ‘Percy, don’t
listen to her!’
Medusa cackled. ‘Too late.’
She lunged at me with her talons.
I slashed up with my sword, heard a sickening shlock!,
then a hiss like wind rushing out of a cavern – the sound of a
monster disintegrating.
Something fell to the ground next to my foot. It took all
my willpower not to look. I could feel warm ooze soaking
into my sock, little dying snake heads tugging at my
shoelaces.
‘Oh, yuck,’ Grover said. His eyes were still tightly closed,
but I guess he could hear the thing gurgling and steaming.
‘Mega-yuck.’
Annabeth came up next to me, her eyes ﬁxed on the sky.
She was holding Medusa’s black veil. She said, ‘Don’t
move.’
Very, very carefully, without looking down, she knelt and
draped the monster’s head in black cloth, then picked it up.
It was still dripping green juice.
‘Are you okay?’ she asked me, her voice trembling.
‘Yeah,’ I decided, though I felt like throwing up my double
cheeseburger. 
‘Why 
didn’t… 
why 
didn’t 
the 
head
160
evaporate?’
‘Once you sever it, it becomes a spoil of war,’ she said.
‘Same as your Minotaur horn. But don’t unwrap the head. It
can still petrify you.’
Grover moaned as he climbed down from the grizzly
statue. He had a big welt on his forehead. His green rasta
cap hung from one of his little goat horns, and his fake feet
had been knocked oﬀ his hooves. The magic sneakers were
ﬂying aimlessly around his head.
‘The Red Baron,’ I said. ‘Good job, man.’
He managed a bashful grin. ‘That really was not fun,
though. Well, the hitting-her-with-a-stick part, that was fun.
But crashing into a concrete bear? Not fun.’
He snatched his shoes out of the air. I recapped my sword.
Together, the three of us stumbled back to the warehouse.
We found some old plastic grocery bags behind the snack
counter and double-wrapped Medusa’s head. We plopped it
on the table where we’d eaten dinner and sat around it, too
exhausted to speak.
Finally I said, ‘So we have Athena to thank for this
monster?’
Annabeth ﬂashed me an irritated look. ‘Your dad, actually.
Don’t you remember? Medusa was Poseidon’s girlfriend.
They decided to meet in my mother’s temple. That’s why
Athena turned her into a monster. Medusa and her two
sisters who had helped her get into the temple, they
became the three gorgons. That’s why Medusa wanted to
slice me up, but she wanted to preserve you as a nice
statue. She’s still sweet on your dad. You probably reminded
her of him.’
My face was burning. ‘Oh, so now it’s my fault we met
Medusa.’
Annabeth straightened. In a bad imitation of my voice, she
said: ‘ “It’s just a photo, Annabeth. What’s the harm?” ’
‘Forget it,’ I said. ‘You’re impossible.’
‘You’re insuﬀerable.’
161
‘You’re –’
‘Hey!’ Grover interrupted. ‘You two are giving me a
migraine, and satyrs don’t even get migraines. What are we
going to do with the head?’
I stared at the thing. One little snake was hanging out of a
hole in the plastic. The words printed on the side of the bag
said: WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS!
I was angry, not just with Annabeth or her mom, but with
all the gods for this whole quest, for getting us blown oﬀ the
road and in two major ﬁghts the very ﬁrst day out from
camp. At this rate, we’d never make it to L.A. alive, much
less before the summer solstice.
What had Medusa said?
Do not be a pawn of the Olympians, my dear. You would
be better oﬀ as a statue.
I got up. ‘I’ll be back.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth called after me. ‘What are you –’
I searched the back of the warehouse until I found
Medusa’s oﬃce. Her account book showed her six most
recent sales, all shipments to the Underworld to decorate
Hades and Persephone’s garden. According to one freight
bill, the Underworld’s billing address was DOA Recording
Studios, West Hollywood, California. I folded up the bill and
stuﬀed it in my pocket.
In the cash register I found twenty dollars, a few golden
drachmas and some packing slips for Hermes Overnight
Express, each with a little leather bag attached for coins. I
rummaged around the rest of the oﬃce until I found the
right-size box.
I went back to the picnic table, packed up Medusa’s head,
and ﬁlled out a delivery slip:
The Gods
Mount Olympus
600th Floor,
162
Empire State Building
New York, NY
 
With best wishes,
PERCY JACKSON
 
‘They’re not going to like that,’ Grover warned. ‘They’ll think
you’re impertinent.’
I poured some golden drachmas in the pouch. As soon as I
closed it, there was a sound like a cash register. The
package ﬂoated oﬀ the table and disappeared with a pop!
‘I am impertinent,’ I said.
I looked at Annabeth, daring her to criticize.
She didn’t. She seemed resigned to the fact that I had a
major talent for ticking oﬀ the gods. ‘Come on,’ she
muttered. ‘We need a new plan.’
163
12    We Get Advice from a Poodle
 
We were pretty miserable that night.
We camped out in the woods, a hundred metres from the
main road, in a marshy clearing that local kids had obviously
been using for parties. The ground was littered with
ﬂattened soda cans and fast-food wrappers.
We’d taken some food and blankets from Aunty Em’s, but
we didn’t dare light a ﬁre to dry our damp clothes. The
Furies and Medusa had provided enough excitement for one
day. We didn’t want to attract anything else.
We decided to sleep in shifts. I volunteered to take ﬁrst
watch.
Annabeth curled up on the blankets and was snoring as
soon as her head hit the ground. Grover ﬂuttered with his
ﬂying shoes to the lowest bough of a tree, put his back to
the trunk, and stared at the night sky.
‘Go ahead and sleep,’ I told him. ‘I’ll wake you if there’s
trouble.’
He nodded, but still didn’t close his eyes. ‘It makes me
sad, Percy.’
‘What does? The fact that you signed up for this stupid
quest?’
‘No. This makes me sad.’ He pointed at all the garbage on
the ground. ‘And the sky. You can’t even see the stars.
They’ve polluted the sky. This is a terrible time to be a
satyr.’
‘Oh, yeah. I guess you’d be an environmentalist.’
164
He glared at me. ‘Only a human wouldn’t be. Your species
is clogging up the world so fast… ah, never mind. It’s
useless to lecture a human. At the rate things are going, I’ll
never ﬁnd Pan.’
‘Pam? Like the cooking spray?’
‘Pan!’ he cried indignantly. ‘P-A-N. The great god Pan!
What do you think I want a searcher’s licence for?’
A strange breeze rustled through the clearing, temporarily
overpowering the stink of trash and muck. It brought the
smell of berries and wildﬂowers and clean rainwater, things
that might’ve once been in these woods. Suddenly I was
nostalgic for something I’d never known.
‘Tell me about the search,’ I said.
Grover looked at me cautiously, as if he were afraid I was
just making fun.
‘The God of Wild Places disappeared two thousand years
ago,’ he told me. ‘A sailor oﬀ the coast of Ephesos heard a
mysterious voice crying out from the shore, “Tell them that
the great god Pan has died!” When humans heard the news,
they believed it. They’ve been pillaging Pan’s kingdom ever
since. But for the satyrs, Pan was our lord and master. He
protected us and the wild places of the earth. We refuse to
believe that he died. In every generation, the bravest satyrs
pledge their lives to ﬁnding Pan. They search the earth,
exploring all the wildest places, hoping to ﬁnd where he is
hidden and wake him from his sleep.’
‘And you want to be a searcher.’
‘It’s my life’s dream,’ he said. ‘My father was a searcher.
And my Uncle Ferdinand… the statue you saw back there –’
‘Oh, right, sorry.’
Grover shook his head. ‘Uncle Ferdinand knew the risks.
So did my dad. But I’ll succeed. I’ll be the ﬁrst searcher to
return alive.’
‘Hang on – the ﬁrst?’
Grover took his reed pipes out of his pocket. ‘No searcher
has ever come back. Once they set out, they disappear.
165
They’re never seen alive again.’
‘Not once in two thousand years?’
‘No.’
‘And your dad? You have no idea what happened to him?’
‘None.’
‘But you still want to go,’ I said, amazed. ‘I mean, you
really think you’ll be the one to ﬁnd Pan?’
‘I have to believe that, Percy. Every searcher does. It’s the
only thing that keeps us from despair when we look at what
humans have done to the world. I have to believe Pan can
still be awakened.’
I stared at the orange haze of the sky and tried to
understand how Grover could pursue a dream that seemed
so hopeless. Then again, was I any better?
‘How are we going to get into the Underworld?’ I asked
him. ‘I mean, what chance do we have against a god?’
‘I don’t know,’ he admitted. ‘But back at Medusa’s, when
you were searching her oﬃce? Annabeth was telling me –’
‘Oh, I forgot. Annabeth will have a plan all ﬁgured out.’
‘Don’t be so hard on her, Percy. She’s had a tough life, but
she’s a good person. After all, she forgave me…’ His voice
faltered.
‘What do you mean?’ I asked. ‘Forgave you for what?’
Suddenly, Grover seemed very interested in playing notes
on his pipes.
‘Wait a minute,’ I said. ‘Your ﬁrst keeper job was ﬁve years
ago. Annabeth has been at camp ﬁve years. She wasn’t… I
mean, your ﬁrst assignment that went wrong –’
‘I can’t talk about it,’ Grover said, and his quivering lower
lip suggested he’d start crying if I pressed him. ‘But as I was
saying, back at Medusas, Annabeth and I agreed there’s
something strange going on with this quest. Something isn’t
what it seems.’
‘Well, duh. I’m getting blamed for stealing a thunderbolt
that Hades took.’
166
‘That’s not what I mean,’ Grover said. ‘The Fu – The Kindly
Ones were sort of holding back. Like Mrs Dodds at Yancy
Academy… why did she wait so long to try to kill you? Then
on the bus, they just weren’t as aggressive as they could’ve
been.’
‘They seemed plenty aggressive to me.’
Grover shook his head. ‘They were screeching at us:
“Where is it? Where?”’
‘Asking about me,’ I said.
‘Maybe… but Annabeth and I, we both got the feeling they
weren’t asking about a person. They said “Where is it?”
They seemed to be asking about an object.’
‘That doesn’t make sense.’
‘I know. But if we’ve misunderstood something about this
quest, and we only have nine days to ﬁnd the master bolt…’
He looked at me like he was hoping for answers, but I didn’t
have any.
I thought about what Medusa had said: I was being used
by the gods. What lay ahead of me was worse than
petriﬁcation. ‘I haven’t been straight with you,’ I told Grover.
‘I don’t care about the master bolt. I agreed to go to the
Underworld so I could bring back my mother.’
Grover blew a soft note on his pipes. ‘I know that, Percy.
But are you sure that’s the only reason?’
‘I’m not doing it to help my father. He doesn’t care about
me. I don’t care about him.’
Grover gazed down from his tree branch. ‘Look, Percy, I’m
not as smart as Annabeth. I’m not as brave as you. But I’m
pretty good at reading emotions. You’re glad your dad is
alive. You feel good that he’s claimed you, and part of you
wants to make him proud. That’s why you mailed Medusa’s
head to Olympus. You wanted him to notice what you’d
done.’
‘Yeah? Well maybe satyr emotions work diﬀerently than
human emotions. Because you’re wrong. I don’t care what
he thinks.’
167
Grover pulled his feet up onto the branch. ‘Okay, Percy.
Whatever.’
‘Besides, I haven’t done anything worth bragging about.
We barely got out of New York and we’re stuck here with no
money and no way west.’
Grover looked at the night sky, like he was thinking about
that problem. ‘How about I take ﬁrst watch, huh? You get
some sleep.’
I wanted to protest, but he started to play Mozart, soft and
sweet, and I turned away, my eyes stinging. After a few bars
of Piano Concerto no. 12, I was asleep.
In my dreams, I stood in a dark cavern before a gaping pit.
Grey mist creatures churned all around me, whispering rags
of smoke that I somehow knew were the spirits of the dead.
They tugged at my clothes, trying to pull me back, but I
felt compelled to walk forward to the very edge of the
chasm.
Looking down made me dizzy.
The pit yawned so wide and was so completely black, I
knew it must be bottomless. Yet I had a feeling that
something was trying to rise from the abyss, something
huge and evil.
The little hero, an amused voice echoed far down in the
darkness. Too weak, too young, but perhaps you will do.
The voice felt ancient – cold and heavy. It wrapped around
me like sheets of lead.
They have misled you, boy, it said. Barter with me. I will
give you what you want.
A shimmering image hovered over the void: my mother,
frozen at the moment she’d dissolved in a shower of gold.
Her face was distorted with pain, as if the Minotaur were still
squeezing her neck. Her eyes looked directly at me,
pleading: Go!
I tried to cry out, but my voice wouldn’t work.
Cold laughter echoed from the chasm.
168
An invisible force pulled me forward. It would drag me into
the pit unless I stood ﬁrm.
Help me rise, boy. The voice became hungrier. Bring me
the bolt. Strike a blow against the treacherous gods!
The spirits of the dead whispered around me, No! Wake!
The image of my mother began to fade. The thing in the
pit tightened its unseen grip around me.
I realized it wasn’t interested in pulling me in. It was using
me to pull itself out
Good, it murmured. Good.
Wake! the dead whispered. Wake!
Someone was shaking me.
My eyes opened, and it was daylight.
‘Well,’ Annabeth said, ‘the zombie lives.’
I was trembling from the dream. I could still feel the grip
of the chasm monster around my chest. ‘How long was I
asleep?’
‘Long enough for me to cook breakfast.’ Annabeth tossed
me a bag of nacho-ﬂavoured corn chips from Aunty Em’s
snack bar. ‘And Grover went exploring. Look, he found a
friend.’
My eyes had trouble focusing.
Grover was sitting cross-legged on a blanket with
something fuzzy in his lap, a dirty, unnaturally pink stuﬀed
animal.
No. It wasn’t a stuﬀed animal. It was a pink poodle.
The poodle yapped at me suspiciously. Grover said, ‘No,
he’s not.’
I blinked. ‘Are you… talking to that thing?’
The poodle growled.
‘This thing,’ Grover warned, ‘is our ticket west. Be nice to
him.’
‘You can talk to animals?’
Grover ignored the question. ‘Percy, meet Gladiola.
Gladiola, Percy.’
169
I stared at Annabeth, ﬁguring she’d crack up at this
practical joke they were playing on me, but she looked
deadly serious.
‘I’m not saying hello to a pink poodle,’ I said. ‘Forget it.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said. ‘I said hello to the poodle. You say
hello to the poodle.’
The poodle growled.
I said hello to the poodle.
Grover explained that he’d come across Gladiola in the
woods and they’d struck up a conversation. The poodle had
run away from a rich local family, who’d posted a $200
reward for his return. Gladiola didn’t really want to go back
to his family, but he was willing to if it meant helping
Grover.
‘How does Gladiola know about the reward?’ I asked.
‘He read the signs,’ Grover said. ‘Duh.’
‘Of course,’ I said. ‘Silly me.’
‘So we turn in Gladiola,’ Annabeth explained in her best
strategy voice, ‘we get money and we buy tickets to Los
Angeles. Simple.’
I thought about my dream – the whispering voices of the
dead, the thing in the chasm and my mother’s face,
shimmering as it dissolved into gold. All that might be
waiting for me in the West.
‘Not another bus,’ I said warily.
‘No,’ Annabeth agreed.
She pointed downhill, towards train tracks I hadn’t been
able to see last night in the dark. ‘There’s an Amtrack
station half a mile that way. According to Gladiola, the
westbound train leaves at noon.’
170
13    I Plunge to My Death
 
We spent two days on the Amtrak train, heading west
through hills, over rivers, past amber waves of grain.
We weren’t attacked once, but I didn’t relax. I felt that we
were travelling around in a display case, being watched
from above and maybe from below, that something was
waiting for the right opportunity.
I tried to keep a low proﬁle because my name and picture
were splattered over the front pages of several East Coast
newspapers. The Trenton Register-News showed a photo
taken by a tourist as I got oﬀ the Greyhound bus. I had a
wild look in my eyes. My sword was a metallic blur in my
hands. It might’ve been a baseball bat or a lacrosse stick.
The picture’s caption read:
 
Twelve-year-old Percy Jackson, wanted for questioning in the Long
Island disappearance of his mother two weeks ago, is shown here
ﬂeeing from the bus where he accosted several elderly female
passengers. The bus exploded on an east New Jersey roadside shortly
after Jackson ﬂed the scene. Based on eyewitness accounts, police
believe the boy may be travelling with two teenage accomplices. His
stepfather, Gabe Ugliano, has oﬀered a cash reward for information
leading to his capture.
 
 
‘Don’t worry,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Mortal police could never
ﬁnd us.’ But she didn’t sound so sure.
The rest of the day I spent alternately pacing the length of
the train (because I had a really hard time sitting still), or
171
looking out the windows.
Once, I spotted a family of centaurs galloping across a
wheat ﬁeld, bows at the ready, as they hunted lunch. The
little boy centaur, who was the size of a second-grader on a
pony, caught my eye and waved. I looked around the
passenger car, but nobody else had noticed. The adult
riders all had their faces buried in laptop computers or
magazines.
Another time, towards evening, I saw something huge
moving through the woods. I could’ve sworn it was a lion,
except that lions don’t live wild in America, and this thing
was the size of a tank. Its fur glinted gold in the evening
light. Then it leaped through the trees and was gone.
Our reward money for returning Gladiola the poodle had
only been enough to purchase tickets as far as Denver. We
couldn’t get berths in the sleeper car, so we dozed in our
seats. My neck got stiﬀ. I tried not to drool in my sleep,
since Annabeth was sitting right next to me.
Grover kept snoring and bleating and waking me up.
Once, he shuﬄed around and his fake foot fell oﬀ. Annabeth
and I had to stick it back on before any of the other
passengers noticed.
‘So,’ Annabeth asked me, once we’d got Grover’s trainer
readjusted. ‘Who wants your help?’
‘What do you mean?’
‘When you were asleep just now, you mumbled, “I won’t
help you.” Who were you dreaming about?’
I was reluctant to say anything. It was the second time I’d
dreamed about the evil voice from the pit. But it bothered
me so much I ﬁnally told her.
Annabeth was quiet for a long time. ‘That doesn’t sound
like Hades. He always appears on a black throne, and he
never laughs.’
‘He oﬀered my mother in trade. Who else could do that?’
172
‘I guess… if he meant, “Help me rise from the
Underworld.” If he wants war with the Olympians. But why
ask you to bring him the master bolt if he already has it?’
I shook my head, wishing I knew the answer. I thought
about what Grover had told me, that the Furies on the bus
seemed to have been looking for something.
Where is it? Where?
Maybe Grover sensed my emotions. He snorted in his
sleep, muttered something about vegetables and turned his
head.
Annabeth readjusted his cap so it covered his horns.
‘Percy, you can’t barter with Hades. You know that, right?
He’s deceitful, heartless and greedy. I don’t care if his Kindly
Ones weren’t as aggressive this time –’
‘This time?’ I asked. ‘You mean you’ve run into them
before?’
Her hand crept up to her necklace. She ﬁngered a glazed
white bead painted with the image of a pine tree, one of her
clay end-of-summer tokens. ‘Let’s just say I’ve got no love
for the Lord of the Dead. You can’t be tempted to make a
deal for your mom’
‘What would you do if it was your dad?’
‘That’s easy,’ she said. ‘I’d leave him to rot.’
‘You’re not serious?’
Annabeth’s grey eyes ﬁxed on me. She wore the same
expression she’d worn in the woods at camp, the moment
she drew her sword against the hellhound. ‘My dad’s
resented me since the day I was born, Percy,’ she said. ‘He
never wanted a baby. When he got me, he asked Athena to
take me back and raise me on Olympus because he was too
busy with his work. She wasn’t happy about that. She told
him heroes had to be raised by their mortal parent.’
‘But how… I mean, I guess you weren’t born in a
hospital…’
‘I appeared on my father’s doorstep, in a golden cradle,
carried down from Olympus by Zephyr the West Wind. You’d
173
think my dad would remember that as a miracle, right? Like,
maybe he’d take some digital photos or something. But he
always talked about my arrival as if it were the most
inconvenient thing that had ever happened to him. When I
was ﬁve he got married and totally forgot about Athena. He
got a “regular” mortal wife, and had two “regular” mortal
kids, and tried to pretend I didn’t exist.’
I stared out the train window. The lights of a sleeping town
were drifting by. I wanted to make Annabeth feel better, but
I didn’t know how.
‘My mom married a really awful guy,’ I told her. ‘Grover
said she did it to protect me, to hide me in the scent of a
human family. Maybe that’s what your dad was thinking.’
Annabeth kept worrying at her necklace. She was pinching
the gold college ring that hung with the beads. It occurred
to me that the ring must be her father’s. I wondered why
she wore it if she hated him so much.
‘He doesn’t care about me,’ she said. ‘His wife – my
stepmom – treated me like a freak. She wouldn’t let me play
with her children. My dad went along with her. Whenever
something dangerous happened – you know, something with
monsters – they would both look at me resentfully, like,
“How dare you put our family at risk!” Finally, I took the
hint. I wasn’t wanted. I ran away.’
‘How old were you?’
‘Same age as when I started camp. Seven.’
‘But… you couldn’t have got all the way to Half-Blood Hill
by yourself’
‘Not alone, no. Athena watched over me, guided me
towards help. I made a couple of unexpected friends who
took care of me, for a short time, anyway.’
I wanted to ask what happened, but Annabeth seemed
lost in sad memories. So I listened to the sound of Grover
snoring and gazed out the train windows as the dark ﬁelds
of Ohio raced by.
174
Towards the end of our second day on the train, June 13,
eight days before the summer solstice, we passed through
some golden hills and over the Mississippi River into St
Louis.
Annabeth craned her neck to see the Gateway Arch, which
looked to me like a huge shopping-bag handle stuck on the
city.
‘I want to do that,’ she sighed.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘Build something like that. You ever see the Parthenon,
Percy?’
‘Only in pictures.’
‘Someday, I’m going to see it in person. I’m going to build
the greatest monument to the gods ever. Something that’ll
last a thousand years.’
I laughed. ‘You? An architect?’
I don’t know why, but I found it funny. Just the idea of
Annabeth trying to sit quietly and draw all day.
Her cheeks ﬂushed. ‘Yes, an architect. Athena expects her
children to create things, not just tear them down, like a
certain god of earthquakes I could mention.’
I watched the churning brown water of the Mississippi
below.
‘Sorry,’ Annabeth said. ‘That was mean.’
‘Can’t we work together a little?’ I pleaded. ‘I mean, didn’t
Athena and Poseidon ever cooperate?’
Annabeth had to think about it. ‘I guess… the chariot,’ she
said tentatively. ‘My mom invented it, but Poseidon created
horses out of the crests of waves. So they had to work
together to make it complete.’
‘Then we can cooperate, too. Right?’
We rode into the city, Annabeth watching as the Arch
disappeared behind a hotel.
‘I suppose,’ she said at last.
We pulled into the Amtrak station downtown. The
intercom told us we’d have a three-hour stopover before
175
departing for Denver.
Grover stretched. Before he was even fully awake, he said,
‘Food.’
‘Come on, goat boy,’ Annabeth said. ‘Sightseeing.’
‘Sightseeing?’
‘The Gateway Arch,’ she said. ‘This may be my only
chance to ride to the top. Are you coming or not?’
Grover and I exchanged looks.
I wanted to say no, but I ﬁgured that if Annabeth was
going, we couldn’t very well let her go alone.
Grover shrugged. ‘As long as there’s a snack bar without
monsters.’
The Arch was about a mile from the train station. Late in the
day the lines to get in weren’t that long. We threaded our
way through the underground museum, looking at covered
wagons and other junk from the 1800s. It wasn’t all that
thrilling, but Annabeth kept telling us interesting facts about
how the Arch was built, and Grover kept passing me jelly
beans, so I was okay.
I kept looking around, though, at the other people in line.
‘You smell anything?’ I murmured to Grover.
He took his nose out of the jelly-bean bag long enough to
sniﬀ. ‘Underground,’ he said distastefully. ‘Underground air
always smells like monsters. Probably doesn’t mean
anything.’
But something felt wrong to me. I had a feeling we
shouldn’t be here.
‘Guys,’ I said. ‘You know the gods’ symbols of power?’
Annabeth had been in the middle of reading about the
construction equipment used to build the Arch, but she
looked over. ‘Yeah?’
‘Well, Hade –’
Grover cleared his throat. ‘We’re in a public place… You
mean, our friend downstairs?’
176
‘Um, right,’ I said. ‘Our friend way downstairs. Doesn’t he
have a hat like Annabeth’s?’
‘You mean the Helm of Darkness,’ Annabeth said. ‘Yeah,
that’s his symbol of power. I saw it next to his seat during
the winter solstice council meeting.’
‘He was there?’ I asked.
She nodded. ‘It’s the only time he’s allowed to visit
Olympus – the darkest day of the year. But his helmet is a
lot more powerful than my invisibility hat, if what I’ve heard
is true…’
‘It allows him to become darkness,’ Grover conﬁrmed. ‘He
can melt into shadow or pass through walls. He can’t be
touched, or seen, or heard. And he can radiate fear so
intense it can drive you insane or stop your heart. Why do
you think all rational creatures fear the dark?’
‘But then… how do we know he’s not here right now,
watching us?’ I asked.
Annabeth and Grover exchanged looks.
‘We don’t,’ Grover said.
‘Thanks, that makes me feel a lot better,’ said. ‘Got any
blue jelly beans left?’
I’d almost mastered my jumpy nerves when I saw the tiny
little elevator car we were going to ride to the top of the
Arch, and I knew I was in trouble. I hate conﬁned places.
They make me nuts.
We got shoehorned into the car with this big fat lady and
her dog, a Chihuahua with a rhinestone collar. I ﬁgured
maybe the dog was a seeing-eye Chihuahua, because none
of the guards said a word about it.
We started going up, inside the Arch. I’d never been in an
elevator that went in a curve, and my stomach wasn’t too
happy about it.
‘No parents?’ the fat lady asked us.
She had beady eyes; pointy, coﬀee-stained teeth; a ﬂoppy
denim hat, and a denim dress that bulged so much she
looked like a blue-jean blimp.
177
‘They’re below,’ Annabeth told her. ‘Scared of heights.’
‘Oh, the poor darlings.’
The Chihuahua growled. The woman said, ‘Now, now,
sonny. Behave.’ The dog had beady eyes like its owner,
intelligent and vicious.
I said, ‘Sonny. Is that his name?’
‘No,’ the lady told me.
She smiled, as if that cleared everything up.
At the top of the Arch, the observation deck reminded me
of a tin can with carpeting. Rows of tiny windows looked out
over the city on one side and the river on the other. The
view was okay, but if there’s anything I like less than a
conﬁned space, its a conﬁned space two hundred metres in
the air. I was ready to go pretty quick.
Annabeth kept talking about structural supports, and how
she would’ve made the windows bigger, and designed a
see-through ﬂoor. She probably could’ve stayed up there for
hours, but luckily for me the park ranger announced that
the observation deck would be closing in a few minutes.
I steered Grover and Annabeth towards the exit, loaded
them into the elevator and I was about to get in myself
when I realized there were already two other tourists inside.
No room for me.
The park ranger said, ‘Next car, sir.’
‘We’ll get out,’ Annabeth said. ‘Well wait with you.’
But that was going to mess everybody up and take even
more time, so I said, ‘Naw, it’s okay. I’ll see you guys at the
bottom.’
Grover and Annabeth both looked nervous, but they let
the elevator door slide shut. Their car disappeared down the
ramp.
Now the only people left on the observation deck were
me, a little boy with his parents, the park ranger and the fat
lady with her Chihuahua.
I smiled uneasily at the fat lady. She smiled back, her
forked tongue ﬂickering between her teeth.
178
Wait a minute.
Forked tongue?
Before I could decide if I’d really seen that, her Chihuahua
jumped down and started yapping at me.
‘Now, now, sonny,’ the lady said. ‘Does this look like a
good time? We have all these nice people here.’
‘Doggie!’ said the little boy. ‘Look, a doggie!’
His parents pulled him back.
The Chihuahua bared his teeth at me, foam dripping from
his black lips.
‘Well, son,’ the fat lady sighed. ‘If you insist.’
Ice started forming in my stomach. ‘Um, did you just call
that Chihuahua your son?’
‘Chimera, dear,’ the fat lady corrected. ‘Not a Chihuahua.
It’s an easy mistake to make.’
She rolled up her denim sleeves, revealing that the skin of
her arms was scaly and green. When she smiled, I saw that
her teeth were fangs. The pupils of her eyes were sideways
slits, like a reptile’s.
The Chihuahua barked louder, and with each bark, it grew.
First to the size of a Dobermann, then to a lion. The bark
became a roar.
The little boy screamed. His parents pulled him back
towards the exit, straight into the park ranger, who stood,
paralysed, gaping at the monster.
The Chimera was now so tall its back rubbed against the
roof. It had the head of a lion with a blood-caked mane, the
body and hooves of a giant goat, and a serpent for a tail, a
three-metre-long diamondback growing right out of its
shaggy behind. The rhinestone dog collar still hung around
its neck, and the plate-sized dog tag was now easy to read:
CHIMERA – RABID, FIRE-BREATHING, POISONOUS - IF
FOUND, PLEASE CALL TARTARUS - EXT. 954.
I realized I hadn’t even uncapped my sword. My hands
were numb. I was three metres away from the Chimeras
179
bloody maw, and I knew that as soon as I moved, the
creature would lunge.
The snake lady made a hissing noise that might’ve been
laughter. ‘Be honoured, Percy Jackson. Lord Zeus rarely
allows me to test a hero with one of my brood. For I am the
Mother of Monsters, the terrible Echidna!’
I stared at her. All I could think to say was: ‘Isn’t that a
kind of anteater?’
She howled, her reptilian face turning brown and green
with rage. ‘I hate it when people say that! I hate Australia!
Naming that ridiculous animal after me. For that, Percy
Jackson, my son shall destroy you!’
The Chimera charged, its lion teeth gnashing. I managed
to leap aside and dodge the bite.
I ended up next to the family and the park ranger, who
were all screaming now, trying to pry open the emergency
exit doors.
I couldn’t let them get hurt. I uncapped my sword, ran to
the other side of the deck, and yelled, ‘Hey, Chihuahua!’
The Chimera turned faster than I would’ve thought
possible.
Before I could swing my sword, it opened its mouth,
emitting a stench like the world’s largest barbecue pit, and
shot a column of ﬂame straight at me.
I dived through the explosion. The carpet burst into
ﬂames; the heat was so intense, it seared oﬀ my eyebrows.
Where I had been standing a moment before was a
ragged hole in the side of the Arch, with melted metal
steaming around the edges.
Great, I thought. We just blowtorched a national
monument.
Riptide was now a shining bronze blade in my hands, and
as the Chimera turned, I slashed at its neck.
That was my fatal mistake. The blade sparked harmlessly
oﬀ the dog collar. I tried to regain my balance, but I was so
worried about defending myself against the ﬁery lion’s
180
mouth, I completely forgot about the serpent tail until it
whipped around and sank its fangs into my calf.
My whole leg was on ﬁre. I tried to jab Riptide into the
Chimera’s mouth, but the serpent tail wrapped around my
ankles and pulled me oﬀ balance, and my blade ﬂew out of
my hand, spinning out of the hole in the Arch and down
towards the Mississippi River.
I managed to get to my feet, but I knew I had lost. I was
weaponless. I could feel deadly poison racing up to my
chest. I remembered Chiron saying that Anaklusmos would
always return to me, but there was no pen in my pocket.
Maybe it had fallen too far away. Maybe it only returned
when it was in pen form. I didn’t know, and I wasn’t going to
live long enough to ﬁgure it out.
I backed into the hole in the wall. The Chimera advanced,
growling, smoke curling from its lips. The snake lady,
Echidna, cackled. ‘They don’t make heroes like they used to,
eh, son?’
The monster growled. It seemed in no hurry to ﬁnish me
oﬀ now that I was beaten.
I glanced at the park ranger and the family. The little boy
was hiding behind his father’s legs. I had to protect these
people. I couldn’t just… die. I tried to think, but my whole
body was on ﬁre. My head felt dizzy. I had no sword. I was
facing a massive, ﬁre-breathing monster and its mother. And
I was scared.
There was no place else to go, so I stepped to the edge of
the hole. Far, far below, the river glittered.
If I died, would the monsters go away? Would they leave
the humans alone?
‘If you are the son of Poseidon,’ Echidna hissed, ‘you
would not fear water. Jump, Percy Jackson. Show me that
water will not harm you. Jump and retrieve your sword.
Prove your bloodline.’
Yeah, right, I thought. I’d read somewhere that jumping
into water from a couple of stories up was like jumping onto
181
solid tar. From here, I’d splatter on impact.
The Chimera’s mouth glowed red, heating up for another
blast.
‘You have no faith,’ Echidna told me. ‘You do not trust the
gods. I cannot blame you, little coward. Better you die now.
The gods are faithless. The poison is in your heart.’
She was right: I was dying. I could feel my breath slowing
down. Nobody could save me, not even the gods.
I backed up and looked down at the water. I remembered
the warm glow of my father’s smile when I was a baby. He
must have seen me. He must have visited me when I was in
my cradle.
I remembered the swirling green trident that had
appeared above my head the night of capture the ﬂag,
when Poseidon had claimed me as his son.
But this wasn’t the sea. This was the Mississippi, dead
centre of the USA. There was no sea god here.
‘Die, faithless one,’ Echidna rasped, and the Chimera sent
a column of ﬂame towards my face.
‘Father, help me,’ I prayed.
I turned and jumped. My clothes on ﬁre, poison coursing
through my veins, I plummeted towards the river.
182
14    I Become a Known Fugitive
 
I’d love to tell you I had some deep revelation on my way
down, that I came to terms with my own mortality, laughed
in the face of death, et cetera.
The truth? My only thought was: Aaaaggghhhhh!
The river raced towards me at the speed of a truck. Wind
ripped the breath from my lungs. Steeples and skyscrapers
and bridges tumbled in and out of my vision.
And then: Flaaa-boooom!
A whiteout of bubbles. I sank through the murk, sure that I
was about to end up embedded in ﬁfty metres of mud and
lost forever.
But my impact with the water hadn’t hurt. I was falling
slowly now, bubbles trickling up through my ﬁngers. I
settled on the river bottom soundlessly. A catﬁsh the size of
my stepfather lurched away into the gloom. Clouds of silt
and disgusting garbage – beer bottles, old shoes, plastic
bags – swirled up all around me.
At that point, I realized a few things: ﬁrst, I had not been
ﬂattened into a pancake. I had not been barbecued. I
couldn’t even feel the Chimera poison boiling in my veins
any more. I was alive, which was good.
Second realization: I wasn’t wet. I mean, I could feel the
coolness of the water. I could see where the ﬁre on my
clothes had been quenched. But when I touched my own
shirt, it felt perfectly dry.
I looked at the garbage ﬂoating by and snatched an old
cigarette lighter.
183
No way, I thought.
I ﬂicked the lighter. It sparked. A tiny ﬂame appeared,
right there at the bottom of the Mississippi.
I grabbed a soggy hamburger wrapper out of the current
and immediately the paper turned dry. I lit it with no
problem. As soon as I let it go, the ﬂames sputtered out. The
wrapper turned back into a slimy rag. Weird.
But the strangest thought occurred to me only last: I was
breathing. I was underwater, and I was breathing normally.
I stood up, thigh-deep in mud. My legs felt shaky. My
hands trembled. I should’ve been dead. The fact that I
wasn’t seemed like… well, a miracle. I imagined a woman’s
voice, a voice that sounded a bit like my mother: Percy,
what do you say?
Um… thanks. Underwater, I sounded like I did on
recordings, like a much older kid. Thank you… Father.
No response. Just the dark drift of garbage downriver, the
enormous catﬁsh gliding by, the ﬂash of sunset on the
water’s surface far above, turning everything the colour of
butterscotch.
Why had Poseidon saved me? The more I thought about it,
the more ashamed I felt. So I’d got lucky a few times before.
Against a thing like the Chimera, I had never stood a
chance. Those poor people in the Arch were probably toast. I
couldn’t protect them. I was no hero. Maybe I should just
stay down here with the catﬁsh, join the bottom feeders.
Fump-fump-fump. A riverboat’s paddlewheel churned
above me, swirling the silt around.
There, not two metres in front of me, was my sword, its
gleaming bronze hilt sticking up in the mud.
I heard that woman’s voice again: Percy, take the sword.
Your father believes in you. This time, I knew the voice
wasn’t in my head. I wasn’t imagining it. Her words seemed
to come from everywhere, rippling through the water like
dolphin sonar.
‘Where are you?’ I called aloud.
184
Then, through the gloom, I saw her – a woman the colour
of the water, a ghost in the current, ﬂoating just above the
sword. She had long billowing hair, and her eyes, barely
visible, were green like mine.
A lump formed in my throat. I said, ‘Mom?’
No, child, only a messenger, though your mother’s fate is
not as hopeless as you believe. Go to the beach in Santa
Monica.
‘What?’
It is your father’s will. Before you descend into the
Underworld, you must go to Santa Monica. Please, Percy, I
cannot stay long. The river here is too foul for my presence.
‘But…’ I was sure this woman was my mother, or a vision
of her, anyway. ‘Who – how did you –’
There was so much I wanted to ask, the words jammed up
in my throat.
I cannot stay, brave one, the woman said. She reached
out, and I felt the current brush my face like a caress. You
must go to Santa Monica! And, Percy, do not trust the gifts…
Her voice faded.
‘Gifts?’ I asked. ‘What gifts? Wait!’
She made one more attempt to speak, but the sound was
gone. Her image melted away. If it was my mother, I had
lost her again.
I felt like drowning myself. The only problem: I was
immune to drowning.
Your father believes in you, she had said.
She’d also called me brave… unless she was talking to the
catﬁsh.
I waded towards Riptide and grabbed it by the hilt. The
Chimera might still be up there with its snaky fat mother,
waiting to ﬁnish me oﬀ. At the very least, the mortal police
would be arriving, trying to ﬁgure out who had blown a hole
in the Arch. If they found me, they’d have some questions.
I capped my sword, stuck the ballpoint pen in my pocket.
‘Thank you, Father,’ I said again to the dark water.
185
Then I kicked up through the muck and swam for the
surface.
I came ashore next to a ﬂoating McDonald’s.
A block away, every emergency vehicle in St Louis was
surrounding the Arch. Police helicopters circled overhead.
The crowd of onlookers reminded me of Times Square on
New Year’s Eve.
A little girl said, ‘Mama! That boy walked out of the river.’
‘That’s nice, dear,’ her mother said, craning her neck to
watch the ambulances.
‘But he’s dry!’
‘That’s nice, dear.’
A news lady was talking for the camera: ‘Probably not a
terrorist attack, we’re told, but it’s still very early in the
investigation. The damage, as you can see, is very serious.
We’re trying to get to some of the survivors, to question
them about eyewitness reports of someone falling from the
Arch.’
Survivors. I felt a surge of relief. Maybe the park ranger
and that family made it out safely. I hoped Annabeth and
Grover were okay.
I tried to push through the crowd to see what was going
on inside the police line.
‘… an adolescent boy,’ another reporter was saying.
‘Channel Five has learned that surveillance cameras show
an adolescent boy going wild on the observation deck,
somehow setting oﬀ this freak explosion. Hard to believe,
John, but that’s what we’re hearing. Again, no conﬁrmed
fatalities…’
I backed away, trying to keep my head down. I had to go a
long way around the police perimeter. Uniformed oﬃcers
and news reporters were everywhere.
I’d almost lost hope of ever ﬁnding Annabeth and Grover
when a familiar voice bleated, ‘Perrr-cy!’
186
I turned and got tackled by Grover’s bear hug – or goat
hug. He said, ‘We thought you’d gone to Hades the hard
way!’
Annabeth stood behind him, trying to look angry, but even
she seemed relieved to see me. ‘We can’t leave you alone
for ﬁve minutes! What happened?’
‘I sort of fell.’
‘Percy! Two hundred metres?’
Behind us, a cop shouted, ‘Gangway!’ The crowd parted,
and a couple of paramedics hustled out, rolling a woman on
a stretcher. I recognized her immediately as the mother of
the little boy who’d been on the observation deck. She was
saying, ‘And then this huge dog, this huge ﬁre-breathing
Chihuahua –’
‘Okay, ma’am,’ the paramedic said. ‘Just calm down. Your
family is ﬁne. The medication is starting to kick in.’
‘I’m not crazy! This boy jumped out of the hole and the
monster disappeared.’ Then she saw me. ‘There he is!
That’s the boy!’
I turned quickly and pulled Annabeth and Grover after me.
We disappeared into the crowd.
‘What’s going on?’ Annabeth demanded. ‘Was she talking
about the Chihuahua on the elevator?’
I told them the whole story of the Chimera, Echidna, my
high-dive act, the underwater lady’s message.
‘Whoa,’ said Grover. ‘We’ve got to get you to Santa
Monica! You can’t ignore a summons from your dad.’
Before Annabeth could respond, we passed another
reporter doing a news break, and I almost froze in my tracks
when he said, ‘Percy Jackson. That’s right, Dan. Channel
Twelve has learned that the boy who may have caused this
explosion ﬁts the description of a young man wanted by the
authorities for a serious New Jersey bus accident three days
ago. And the boy is believed to be travelling west. For our
viewers at home, here is a photo of Percy Jackson.’
We ducked around the news van and slipped into an alley.
187
‘First things ﬁrst,’ I told Grover. ‘We’ve got to get out of
town!’
Somehow, we made it back to the Amtrak station without
getting spotted. We got on board the train just before it
pulled out for Denver. The train trundled west as darkness
fell, police lights still pulsing against the St Louis skyline
behind us.
188
15    A God Buys Us Cheeseburgers
 
The next afternoon, June 14, seven days before the solstice,
our train rolled into Denver. We hadn’t eaten since the night
before in the dining car, somewhere in Kansas. We hadn’t
taken a shower since Half-Blood Hill, and I was sure that was
obvious.
‘Let’s try to contact Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘I want to tell
him about your talk with the river spirit.’
‘We cant use phones, right?’
‘I’m not talking about phones.’
We wandered through downtown for about half an hour,
though I wasn’t sure what Annabeth was looking for. The air
was dry and hot, which felt weird after the humidity of St
Louis. Everywhere we turned, the Rocky Mountains seemed
to be staring at me, like a tidal wave about to crash into the
city.
Finally we found an empty do-it-yourself car wash. We
veered towards the stall furthest from the street, keeping
our eyes open for patrol cars. We were three adolescents
hanging out at a car wash without a car; any cop worth his
doughnuts would ﬁgure we were up to no good.
‘What exactly are we doing?’ I asked, as Grover took out
the spray gun.
‘It’s seventy-ﬁve cents,’ he grumbled. ‘I’ve only got two
quarters left. Annabeth?’
‘Don’t look at me,’ she said. ‘The dining car wiped me
out.’
189
I ﬁshed out my last bit of change and passed Grover a
quarter, which left me two nickels and one drachma from
Medusa’s place.
‘Excellent,’ Grover said. ‘We could do it with a spray
bottle, of course, but the connection isn’t as good, and my
arm gets tired of pumping.’
‘What are you talking about?’
He fed in the quarters and set the knob to ﬁne mist ‘I-
M’ing.’
‘Instant messaging?’
‘Iris-messaging,’ 
Annabeth 
corrected. 
‘The 
rainbow
goddess Iris carries messages for the gods. If you know how
to ask, and she’s not too busy, she’ll do the same for half-
bloods.’
‘You summon the goddess with a spray gun?’
Grover pointed the nozzle in the air and water hissed out
in a thick white mist. ‘Unless you know an easier way to
make a rainbow.’
Sure enough, late afternoon light ﬁltered through the
vapour and broke into colours.
Annabeth held her palm out to me. ‘Drachma, please.’
I handed it over.
She raised the coin over her head. ‘O goddess, accept our
oﬀering.’
She threw the drachma into the rainbow. It disappeared in
a golden shimmer.
‘Half-Blood Hill,’ Annabeth requested.
For a moment, nothing happened.
Then I was looking through the mist at strawberry ﬁelds,
and the Long Island Sound in the distance. We seemed to be
on the porch of the Big House. Standing with his back to us
at the railing was a sandy-haired guy in shorts and an
orange tank top. He was holding a bronze sword and
seemed to be staring intently at something down in the
meadow.
‘Luke!’ I called.
190
He turned, eyes wide. I could swear he was standing a
metre in front of me through a screen of mist, except I could
only see the part of him that appeared in the rainbow.
‘Percy!’ His scarred face broke into a grin. ‘Is that
Annabeth, too? Thank the gods! Are you guys okay?’
‘We’re… uh… ﬁne,’ Annabeth stammered. She was madly
straightening her dirty T-shirt, trying to comb the loose hair
out of her face. ‘We thought – Chiron – I mean –’
‘He’s down at the cabins.’ Luke’s smile faded. ‘We’re
having some issues with the campers. Listen, is everything
cool with you? Is Grover all right?’
‘I’m right here,’ Grover called. He held the nozzle out to
one side and stepped into Luke’s line of vision. ‘What kind of
issues?’
Just then a big Lincoln Continental pulled into the car
wash with its stereo turned to maximum hip-hop. As the car
slid into the next stall, the bass from the subwoofers
vibrated so much, it shook the pavement.
‘Chiron had to – what’s that noise?’ Luke yelled.
‘I’ll take care of it!’ Annabeth yelled back, looking very
relieved to have an excuse to get out of sight. ‘Grover, come
on!’
‘What?’ Grover said. ‘But –’
‘Give Percy the nozzle and come on!’ she ordered.
Grover muttered something about girls being harder to
understand than the Oracle at Delphi, then he handed me
the spray gun and followed Annabeth.
I readjusted the hose so I could keep the rainbow going
and still see Luke.
‘Chiron had to break up a ﬁght,’ Luke shouted to me over
the music. ‘Things are pretty tense here, Percy. Word leaked
out about the Zeus–Poseidon stand-oﬀ. We’re still not sure
how – probably the same scumbag who summoned the
hellhound. Now the campers are starting to take sides. It’s
shaping up like the Trojan War all over again. Aphrodite,
191
Ares and Apollo are backing Poseidon, more or less. Athena
is backing Zeus.’
I shuddered to think that Clarisse’s cabin would ever be on
my dad’s side for anything. In the next stall, I heard
Annabeth and some guy arguing with each other, then the
music’s volume decreased drastically.
‘So what’s your status?’ Luke asked me. ‘Chiron will be
sorry he missed you.’
I told him pretty much everything, including my dreams. It
felt so good to see him, to feel like I was back at camp even
for a few minutes, that I didn’t realize how long I had talked
until the beeper went oﬀ on the spray machine, and I
realized I only had one more minute before the water shut
oﬀ.
‘I wish I could be there,’ Luke told me. ‘We can’t help from
here, I’m afraid, but listen… it had to be Hades who took the
master bolt. He was there at Olympus at the winter solstice.
I was chaperoning a ﬁeld trip and we saw him.’
‘But Chiron said the gods can’t take each other’s magic
items directly.’
‘That’s true,’ Luke said, looking troubled. ‘Still… Hades
has the helmet of darkness. How could anybody else sneak
into the throne room and steal the master bolt? You’d have
to be invisible.’
We were both silent, until Luke seemed to realize what
he’d said.
‘Oh, hey,’ he protested. ‘I didn’t mean Annabeth. She and
I have known each other forever. She would never… I mean,
she’s like a little sister to me.’
I wondered if Annabeth would like that description. In the
stall next to us, the music stopped completely. A man
screamed in terror, car doors slammed and the Lincoln
peeled out of the car wash.
‘You’d better go see what that was,’ Luke said. ‘Listen, are
you wearing the ﬂying shoes? I’ll feel better if I know
they’ve done you some good.’
192
‘Oh… uh, yeah!’ I tried not to sound like a guilty liar. ‘Yeah,
they’ve come in handy.’
‘Really?’ He grinned. ‘They ﬁt and everything?’
The water shut oﬀ. The mist started to evaporate.
‘Well, take care of yourself out there in Denver,’ Luke
called, his voice getting fainter. ‘And tell Grover it’ll be
better this time! Nobody will get turned into a pine tree if he
just –’
But the mist was gone, and Luke’s image faded to
nothing. I was alone in a wet, empty car-wash stall.
Annabeth and Grover came around the corner, laughing,
but stopped when they saw my face. Annabeth’s smile
faded. ‘What happened, Percy? What did Luke say?’
‘Not much,’ I lied, my stomach feeling as empty as a Big
Three cabin. ‘Come on, let’s ﬁnd some dinner.’
A few minutes later, we were sitting at a booth in a
gleaming chrome diner. All around us, families were eating
burgers and drinking milkshakes and sodas.
Finally the waitress came over. She raised her eyebrow
sceptically. ‘Well?’
I said, ‘We, um, want to order dinner.’
‘You kids have money to pay for it?’
Grover’s lower lip quivered. I was afraid he would start
bleating, or worse, start eating the linoleum. Annabeth
looked ready to pass out from hunger.
I was trying to think up a sob story for the waitress when a
rumble shook the whole building; a motorcycle the size of a
baby elephant had pulled up to the kerb.
All conversation in the diner stopped. The motorcycle’s
headlight glared red. Its gas tank had ﬂames painted on it,
and a shotgun holster riveted to either side, complete with
shotguns. The seat was leather – but leather that looked
like… well, Caucasian human skin.
The guy on the bike would’ve made pro wrestlers run for
Mama. He was dressed in a red muscle shirt and black jeans
193
and a black leather duster, with a hunting knife strapped to
his thigh. He wore red wraparound shades, and he had the
cruellest, most brutal face I’d ever seen – handsome, I
guess, but wicked – with an oily black crew cut and cheeks
that were scarred from many, many ﬁghts. The weird thing
was, I felt like I’d seen his face somewhere before.
As he walked into the diner, a hot, dry wind blew through
the place. All the people rose, as if they were hypnotized,
but the biker waved his hand dismissively and they all sat
down again. Everybody went back to their conversations.
The waitress blinked, as if somebody had just pressed the
rewind button on her brain. She asked us again, ‘You kids
have money to pay for it?’
The biker said, ‘It’s on me.’ He slid into our booth, which
was way too small for him, and crowded Annabeth against
the window.
He looked up at the waitress, who was gaping at him, and
said, ‘Are you still here?’
He pointed at her, and she stiﬀened. She turned as if
she’d been spun around, then marched back towards the
kitchen.
The biker looked at me. I couldn’t see his eyes behind the
red shades, but bad feelings started boiling in my stomach.
Anger, resentment, bitterness. I wanted to hit a wall. I
wanted to pick a ﬁght with somebody. Who did this guy
think he was?
He gave me a wicked grin. ‘So you’re old Seaweed’s kid,
huh?’
I should’ve been surprised, or scared, but instead I felt like
I was looking at my stepdad, Gabe. I wanted to rip this guy’s
head oﬀ. ‘What’s it to you?’
Annabeth’s eyes ﬂashed me a warning. ‘Percy, this is –’
The biker raised his hand.
‘S’okay,’ he said. ‘I don’t mind a little attitude. Long as
you remember who’s the boss. You know who I am, little
cousin?’
194
Then it struck me why this guy looked familiar. He had the
same vicious sneer as some of the kids at Camp Half-Blood,
the ones from cabin ﬁve.
‘You’re Clarisse’s dad,’ I said. ‘Ares, god of war.’
Ares grinned and took oﬀ his shades. Where his eyes
should’ve been, there was only ﬁre, empty sockets glowing
with miniature nuclear explosions. ‘That’s right, punk. I
heard you broke Clarisse’s spear.’
‘She was asking for it.’
‘Probably. That’s cool. I don’t ﬁght my kids’ ﬁghts, you
know? What I’m here for – I heard you were in town. I got a
little proposition for you.’
The waitress came back with heaping trays of food –
cheeseburgers, fries, onion rings and chocolate shakes.
Ares handed her a few gold drachmas.
She looked nervously at the coins. ‘But, these aren’t…’
Ares pulled out his huge knife and started cleaning his
ﬁngernails. ‘Problem, sweetheart?’
The waitress swallowed, then left with the gold.
‘You can’t do that,’ I told Ares. ‘You can’t just threaten
people with a knife.’
Ares laughed. Are you kidding? I love this country. Best
place since Sparta. Don’t you carry a weapon, punk? You
should. Dangerous world out there. Which brings me to my
proposition. I need you to do me a favour.’
‘What favour could I do for a god?’
‘Something a god doesn’t have time to do himself. It’s
nothing much. I left my shield at an abandoned water park
here in town. I was going on a little… date with my
girlfriend. We were interrupted. I left my shield behind. I
want you to fetch it for me.’
‘Why don’t you go back and get it yourself?’
The ﬁre in his eye sockets glowed a little hotter.
‘Why don’t I turn you into prairie dog and run you over
with my Harley? Because I don’t feel like it. A god is giving
you an opportunity to prove yourself, Percy Jackson. Will you
195
prove yourself a coward?’ He leaned forward. ‘Or maybe you
only ﬁght when there’s a river to dive into, so your daddy
can protect you.’
I wanted to punch this guy, but somehow, I knew he was
waiting for that. Ares’s power was causing my anger. He’d
love it if I attacked. I didn’t want to give him the
satisfaction.
‘We’re not interested,’ I said. ‘We’ve already got a quest.’
Ares’s ﬁery eyes made me see things I didn’t want to see
– blood and smoke and corpses on the battleﬁeld. ‘I know all
about your quest, punk. When that item was ﬁrst stolen,
Zeus sent his best out looking for it: Apollo, Athena, Artemis
and me, naturally. If I couldn’t sniﬀ out a weapon that
powerful…’ He licked his lips, as if the very thought of the
master bolt made him hungry. ‘Well… if I couldn’t ﬁnd it, you
got no hope. Nevertheless, I’m trying to give you the beneﬁt
of a doubt. Your dad and I go way back. After all, I’m the one
who told him my suspicions about old Corpse Breath.’
‘You told him Hades stole the bolt?’
‘Sure. Framing somebody to start a war. Oldest trick in the
book. I recognized it immediately. In a way, you got me to
thank for your little quest.’
‘Thanks,’ I grumbled.
‘Hey, I’m a generous guy. Just do my little job, and I’ll help
you on your way. I’ll arrange a ride west for you and your
friends.’
‘We’re doing ﬁne on our own.’
‘Yeah, right. No money. No wheels. No clue what you’re up
against. Help me out, and maybe I’ll tell you something you
need to know. Something about your mom.’
‘My mom?’
He grinned. ‘That got your attention. The water park is a
mile west on Delancy. You can’t miss it. Look for the Tunnel
of Love ride.’
‘What interrupted your date?’ I asked. ‘Something scare
you oﬀ?’
196
Ares bared his teeth, but I’d seen his threatening look
before on Clarisse. There was something false about it,
almost like he was nervous.
‘You’re lucky you met me, punk, and not one of the other
Olympians. They’re not as forgiving of rudeness as I am. I’ll
meet you back here when you’re done. Don’t disappoint
me.’
After that I must have fainted, or fallen into a trance,
because when I opened my eyes again Ares was gone. I
might’ve thought the conversation had been a dream, but
Annabeth and Grover’s expressions told me otherwise.
‘Not good,’ Grover said. ‘Ares sought you out, Percy. This
is not good.’
I stared out the window. The motorcycle had disappeared.
Did Ares really know something about my mom, or was he
just playing with me? Now that he was gone, all the anger
had drained out of me. I realized Ares must love to mess
with people’s emotions. That was his power – cranking up
the passions so badly, they clouded your ability to think.
‘It’s probably some kind of trick,’ I said. ‘Forget Ares. Let’s
just go.’
‘We can’t,’ Annabeth said. ‘Look, I hate Ares as much as
anybody, but you don’t ignore the gods unless you want
serious bad fortune. He wasn’t kidding about turning you
into a rodent.’
I looked down at my cheeseburger, which suddenly didn’t
seem so appetizing. ‘Why does he need us?’
‘Maybe it’s a problem that requires brains,’ Annabeth said.
‘Ares has strength. That’s all he has. Even strength has to
bow to wisdom sometimes.’
‘But this water park… he acted almost scared. What would
make a war god run away like that?’
Annabeth and Grover glanced nervously at each other.
Annabeth said, ‘I’m afraid well have to ﬁnd out.’
197
The sun was sinking behind the mountains by the time we
found the water park. Judging from the sign, it once had
been called WATERLAND, but now some of the letters were
smashed out, so it read WAT R A D.
The main gate was padlocked and topped with barbed
wire. Inside, huge dry waterslides and tubes and pipes
curled everywhere, leading to empty pools. Old tickets and
advertisements ﬂuttered around the tarmac. With night
coming on, the place looked sad and creepy.
‘If Ares brings his girlfriend here for a date,’ I said, staring
up at the barbed wire, ‘I’d hate to see what she looks like.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth warned. ‘Be more respectful.’
‘Why? I thought you hated Ares.’
‘He’s still a god. And his girlfriend is very temperamental’
‘You don’t want to insult her looks,’ Grover added.
‘Who is she? Echidna?’
‘No, Aphrodite,’ Grover said, a little dreamily. ‘Goddess of
love.’
‘I thought she was married to somebody,’ I said.
‘Hephaestus.’
‘What’s your point?’ he asked.
‘Oh.’ I suddenly felt the need to change the subject. ‘So
how do we get in?’
‘Maia!’ Grover’s shoes sprouted wings.
He ﬂew over the fence, did an unintended somersault in
midair, then stumbled to a landing on the opposite side. He
dusted oﬀ his jeans, as if he’d planned the whole thing. ‘You
guys coming?’
Annabeth and I had to climb the old-fashioned way,
holding down the barbed wire for each other as we crawled
over the top.
The shadows grew long as we walked through the park,
checking out the attractions. There was Ankle Biter Island,
Head Over Wedgie and Dude, Where’s My Swimsuit?
No monsters came to get us. Nothing made the slightest
noise.
198
We found a souvenir shop that had been left open.
Merchandise still lined the shelves: snow globes, pencils,
postcards and racks of –
‘Clothes,’ Annabeth said. ‘Fresh clothes.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘But you can’t just –’
‘Watch me.’
She snatched an entire row of stuﬀ of the racks and
disappeared into the changing room. A few minutes later
she came out in Waterland ﬂower-print shorts, a big red
Waterland T-shirt and commemorative Waterland surf shoes.
A Waterland backpack was slung over her shoulder,
obviously stuﬀed with more goodies.
‘What the heck.’ Grover shrugged. Soon, all three of us
were decked out like walking advertisements for the defunct
theme park.
We continued searching for the Tunnel of Love. I got the
feeling that the whole park was holding its breath. ‘So Ares
and Aphrodite,’ I said, to keep my mind oﬀ the growing
dark, ‘they have a thing going?’
‘That’s old gossip, Percy,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Three-
thousand-year-old gossip.’
‘What about Aphrodite’s husband?’
‘Well, you know,’ she said. ‘Hephaestus. The blacksmith.
He was crippled when he was a baby, thrown oﬀ Mount
Olympus by Zeus. So he isn’t exactly handsome. Clever with
his hands and all, but Aphrodite isn’t into brains and talent,
you know?’
‘She likes bikers.’
‘Whatever.’
‘Hephaestus knows?’
‘Oh sure,’ Annabeth said. ‘He caught them together once.
I mean, literally caught them, in a golden net, and invited all
the gods to come and laugh at them. Hephaestus is always
trying to embarrass them. That’s why they meet in out-of-
the-way places, like…’
She stopped, looking straight ahead. ‘Like that.’
199
In front of us was an empty pool that would’ve been
awesome for skateboarding. It was at least ﬁfty metres
across and shaped like a bowl.
Around the rim, a dozen bronze statues of Cupid stood
guard with wings spread and bows ready to ﬁre. On the
opposite side from us, a tunnel opened up, probably where
the water ﬂowed into when the pool was full. The sign above
it read: THRILL RIDE O’ LOVE: THIS IS NOT YOUR PARENTS’
TUNNEL OF LOVE!
Grover crept towards the edge. ‘Guys, look.’
Marooned at the bottom of the pool was a pink-and-white
two-seater boat with a canopy over the top and little hearts
painted all over it. In the left seat, glinting in the fading
light, was Ares’s shield, a polished circle of bronze.
‘This is too easy,’ I said. ‘So we just walk down there and
get it?’
Annabeth ran her ﬁngers along the base of the nearest
Cupid statue.
‘There’s a Greek letter carved here,’ she said. ‘Eta. I
wonder…’
‘Grover,’ I said, ‘you smell any monsters?’
He sniﬀed the wind. ‘Nothing.’
‘Nothing – like, in-the-Arch-and-you-didn’t-smell-Echidna
nothing, or really nothing?’
Grover looked hurt. ‘I told you, that was underground.’
‘Okay, I’m sorry.’ I took a deep breath. ‘I’m going down
there.’
‘I’ll go with you.’ Grover didn’t sound too enthusiastic, but
I got the feeling he was trying to make up for what had
happened in St Louis.
‘No,’ I told him. ‘I want you to stay up top with the ﬂying
shoes. You’re the Red Baron, remember? I’ll be counting on
you for backup, in case something goes wrong.’
Grover puﬀed up his chest a little. ‘Sure. But what could
go wrong?’
‘I don’t know. Just a feeling. Annabeth, come with me –’
200
‘Are you kidding?’ She looked at me as if I’d just dropped
from the moon. Her cheeks were bright red.
‘What’s the problem now?’ I demanded.
‘Me, go with you to the… the “Thrill Ride of Love”? How
embarrassing is that? What if somebody saw me?’
‘Who’s going to see you?’ But my face was burning now,
too. Leave it to a girl to make everything complicated.
‘Fine,’ I told her. ‘I’ll do it myself.’ But when I started down
the side of the pool, she followed me, muttering about how
boys always messed things up.
We reached the boat. The shield was propped on one seat,
and next to it was a lady’s silk scarf. I tried to imagine Ares
and Aphrodite here, a couple of gods meeting in a junked-
out amusement-park ride. Why? Then I noticed something I
hadn’t seen from up top: mirrors all the way around the rim
of the pool, facing this spot. We could see ourselves no
matter which direction we looked. That must be it. While
Ares and Aphrodite were smooching with each other they
could look at their favourite people: themselves.
I picked up the scarf. It shimmered pink, and the perfume
was indescribable – rose, or mountain laurel. Something
good. I smiled, a little dreamy, and was about to rub the
scarf against my cheek when Annabeth ripped it out of my
hand and stuﬀed it in her pocket. ‘Oh, no you don’t. Stay
away from that love magic.’
‘What?’
‘Just get the shield, Seaweed Brain, and let’s get out of
here.’
The moment I touched the shield, I knew we were in
trouble. My hand broke through something that had been
connecting it to the dashboard. A cobweb, I thought, but
then I looked at a strand of it on my palm and saw it was
some kind of metal ﬁlament, so ﬁne it was almost invisible.
A tripwire.
‘Wait,’ Annabeth said.
‘Too late.’
201
‘There’s another Greek letter on the side of the boat,
another Eta. This is a trap.’
Noise erupted all around us, of a million gears grinding, as
if the whole pool were turning into one giant machine.
Grover yelled, ‘Guys!’
Up on the rim, the Cupid statues were drawing their bows
into ﬁring position. Before I could suggest taking cover, they
shot, but not at us. They ﬁred at each other, across the rim
of the pool. Silky cables trailed from the arrows, arcing over
the pool and anchoring where they landed to form a huge
golden asterisk. Then smaller metallic threads started
weaving together magically between the main strands,
making a net.
‘We have to get out,’ I said.
‘Duh!’ Annabeth said.
I grabbed the shield and we ran, but going up the slope of
the pool was not as easy as going down.
‘Come on!’ Grover shouted.
He was trying to hold open a section of the net for us, but
wherever he touched it, the golden threads started to wrap
around his hands.
The Cupids’ heads popped open. Out came video
cameras. Spotlights rose up all around the pool, blinding us
with illumination, and a loudspeaker voice boomed: ‘Live to
Olympus in one minute… Fifty-nine seconds, ﬁfty-eight…’
‘Hephaestus!’ Annabeth screamed. ‘I’m so stupid! Eta is
“H”. He made this trap to catch his wife with Ares. Now
we’re going to be broadcast live to Olympus and look like
absolute fools!’
We’d almost made it to the rim when the row of mirrors
opened like hatches and thousands of tiny metallic… things
poured out.
Annabeth screamed.
It was an army of wind-up creepy-crawlies: bronze-gear
bodies, spindly legs, little pincer mouths, all scuttling
towards us in a wave of clacking, whirring metal.
202
‘Spiders!’ Annabeth said. ‘Sp – sp – aaaah!’
I’d never seen her like this before. She fell backwards in
terror and almost got overwhelmed by the spider robots
before I pulled her up and dragged her back towards the
boat.
The things were coming out from all around the rim now,
millions of them, ﬂooding towards the centre of the pool,
completely surrounding us. I told myself they probably
weren’t programmed to kill, just corral us and bite us and
make us look stupid. Then again, this was a trap meant for
gods. And we weren’t gods.
Annabeth and I climbed into the boat. I started kicking
away the spiders as they swarmed aboard. I yelled at
Annabeth to help me, but she was too paralysed to do much
more than scream.
‘Thirty, twenty-nine,’ called the loudspeaker.
The spiders started spitting out strands of metal thread,
trying to tie us down. The strands were easy enough to
break at ﬁrst, but there were so many of them, and the
spiders just kept coming. I kicked one away from Annabeth’s
leg and its pincers took a chunk out of my new surf shoe.
Grover hovered above the pool in his ﬂying trainers, trying
to pull the net loose, but it wouldn’t budge.
Think, I told myself. Think.
The tunnel of love entrance was under the net. We could
use it as an exit, except that it was blocked by a million
robot spiders.
‘Fifteen, fourteen,’ the loudspeaker called.
Water, I thought. Where does the ride’s water come from?
Then I saw them: huge water pipes behind the mirrors,
where the spiders had come from. And up above the net,
next to one of the Cupids, a glass-windowed booth that
must be the controller’s station.
‘Grover!’ I yelled. ‘Get into that booth! Find the “on”
switch!’
‘But –’
203
‘Do it!’ It was a crazy hope, but it was our only chance.
The spiders were all over the prow of the boat now.
Annabeth was screaming her head oﬀ. I had to get us out of
here.
Grover was in the controller’s booth now, slamming away
at the buttons.
‘Five, four –’
Grover looked up at me hopelessly, raising his hands. He
was letting me know that he’d pushed every button, but still
nothing was happening.
I closed my eyes and thought about waves, rushing water,
the Mississippi River. I felt a familiar tug in my gut. I tried to
imagine that I was dragging the ocean all the way to
Denver.
‘Two, one, zero!’
Water exploded out of the pipes. It roared into the pool,
sweeping away the spiders. I pulled Annabeth into the seat
next to me and fastened her seatbelt just as the tidal wave
slammed into our boat, over the top, whisking the spiders
away and dousing us completely, but not capsizing us. The
boat turned, lifted in the ﬂood, and spun in circles around
the whirlpool.
The water was full of short-circuiting spiders, some of
them smashing against the pool’s concrete wall with such
force they burst.
Spotlights glared down at us. The Cupid-cams were rolling,
live to Olympus.
But I could only concentrate on controlling the boat. I
willed it to ride the current, to keep away from the wall.
Maybe it was my imagination, but the boat seemed to
respond. At least, it didn’t break into a million pieces. We
spun around one last time, the water level now almost high
enough to shred us against the metal net. Then the boat’s
nose turned towards the tunnel and we rocketed through
into the darkness.
204
Annabeth and I held tight, both of us screaming as the
boat shot curls and hugged corners and took forty-ﬁve
degree plunges past pictures of Romeo and Juliet and a
bunch of other Valentine’s Day stuﬀ.
Then we were out of the tunnel, the night air whistling
through our hair as the boat barrelled straight towards the
exit.
If the ride had been in working order, we would’ve sailed
oﬀ a ramp between the golden Gates of Love and splashed
down safely in the exit pool. But there was a problem. The
Gates of Love were chained. Two boats that had been
washed out of the tunnel before us were now piled against
the barricade – one submerged, the other cracked in half.
‘Unfasten your seat belt,’ I yelled to Annabeth.
‘Are you crazy?’
‘Unless you want to get smashed to death.’ I strapped
Ares’s shield to my arm. ‘We’re going to have to jump for it.’
My idea was simple and insane. As the boat struck, we
would use its force like a springboard to jump the gate. I’d
heard of people surviving car crashes that way, getting
thrown ten or ﬁfteen metres away from an accident. With
luck, we would land in the pool.
Annabeth seemed to understand. She gripped my hand as
the gates got closer.
‘When I say go,’ I said.
‘No! When I say go!’
‘What?’
‘Simple physics!’ she yelled. ‘Force times the trajectory
angle –’
‘Fine!’ I shouted. ‘When you say go!’
She hesitated… hesitated… then yelled, ‘Now!’
Crack!
Annabeth was right. If we’d jumped when I thought we
should’ve, we would’ve crashed into the gates. She got us
maximum lift.
205
Unfortunately, that was a little more than we needed. Our
boat smashed into the pileup and we were thrown into the
air, straight over the gates, over the pool, and down towards
solid tarmac.
Something grabbed me from behind.
Annabeth yelled, ‘Ouch!’
Grover!
In midair, he had grabbed me by the shirt, and Annabeth
by the arm, and was trying to pull us out of a crash landing,
but Annabeth and I had all the momentum.
‘You’re too heavy!’ Grover said. ‘We’re going down!’
We spiralled towards the ground, Grover doing his best to
slow the fall.
We smashed into a photo-board, Grover’s head going
straight into the hole where tourists would put their faces,
pretending to be Noo-Noo the Friendly Whale. Annabeth and
I tumbled to the ground, banged up but alive. Ares’s shield
was still on my arm.
Once we caught our breath, Annabeth and I got Grover
out of the photo-board and thanked him for saving our lives.
I looked back at the Thrill Ride of Love. The water was
subsiding. Our boat had been smashed to pieces against the
gates.
A hundred metres away, at the entrance pool, the Cupids
were still ﬁlming. The statues had swivelled so that their
cameras were trained straight on us, the spotlights in our
faces.
‘Show’s over!’ I yelled. ‘Thank you! Goodnight!’
The Cupids turned back to their original positions. The
lights shut oﬀ. The park went quiet and dark again, except
for the gentle trickle of water into the Thrill Ride of Love’s
exit pool. I wondered if Olympus had gone to a commercial
break, or if our ratings had been any good.
I hated being teased. I hated being tricked. And I had
plenty of experience handling bullies who liked to do that
206
stuﬀ to me. I hefted the shield on my arm and turned to my
friends. ‘We need to have a little talk with Ares.’
207
16    We Take a Zebra to Vegas
 
The war god was waiting for us in the diner parking lot.
‘Well, well,’ he said. ‘You didn’t get yourself killed.’
‘You knew it was a trap,’ I said.
Ares gave me a wicked grin. ‘Bet that crippled blacksmith
was surprised when he netted a couple of stupid kids. You
looked good on TV.’
I shoved his shield at him. ‘You’re a jerk.’
Annabeth and Grover caught their breath.
Ares grabbed the shield and spun it in the air like pizza
dough. It changed form, melting into a bulletproof vest. He
slung it across his back.
‘See that truck over there?’ He pointed to an eighteen-
wheeler parked across the street from the diner. ‘That’s your
ride. Take you straight to L.A., with one stop in Vegas.’
The eighteen-wheeler had a sign on the back, which I
could read only because it was reverse-printed white on
black, 
a 
good 
combination 
for 
dyslexia: 
KINDNESS
INTERNATIONAL: HUMANE ZOO TRANSPORT. WARNING: LIVE
WILD ANIMALS.
I said, ‘You’re kidding.’
Ares snapped his ﬁngers. The back door of the truck
unlatched. ‘Free ride west, punk. Stop complaining. And
here’s a little something for doing the job.’
He slung a blue nylon backpack oﬀ his handlebars and
tossed it to me.
Inside were fresh clothes for all of us, twenty bucks in
cash, a pouch full of golden drachmas and a bag of Double
208
Stuf Oreos.
I said, ‘I don’t want your lousy –’
‘Thank you, Lord Ares,’ Grover interrupted, giving me his
best red-alert warning look. ‘Thanks a lot.’
I gritted my teeth. It was probably a deadly insult to
refuse something from a god, but I didn’t want anything that
Ares had touched. Reluctantly, I slung the backpack over my
shoulder. I knew my anger was being caused by the war
god’s presence, but I was still itching to punch him in the
nose. He reminded me of every bully I’d ever faced: Nancy
Boboﬁt, Clarisse, Smelly Gabe, sarcastic teachers – every
jerk who’d called me stupid in school or laughed at me when
I’d got expelled.
I looked back at the diner, which had only a couple of
customers now. The waitress who’d served us dinner was
watching nervously out the window, like she was afraid Ares
might hurt us. She dragged the cook out from the kitchen to
see. She said something to him. He nodded, held up a little
disposable camera and snapped a picture of us.
Great, I thought. We’ll make the papers again tomorrow.
I imagined the headline: TWELVE-YEAR-OLD OUTLAW
BEATS UP DEFENCELESS BIKER.
‘You owe me one more thing,’ I told Ares, trying to keep
my voice level. ‘You promised me information about my
mother.’
‘You sure you can handle the news?’ He kick-started his
motorcycle. ‘She’s not dead.’
The ground seemed to spin beneath me. ‘What do you
mean?’
‘I mean she was taken away from the Minotaur before she
could die. She was turned into a shower of gold, right?
That’s metamorphosis. Not death. She’s being kept.’
‘Kept. Why?’
‘You need to study war, punk. Hostages. You take
somebody to control somebody else.’
‘Nobody’s controlling me.’
209
He laughed. ‘Oh yeah? See you around, kid.’
I balled up my ﬁsts. ‘You’re pretty smug, Lord Ares, for a
guy who runs from Cupid statues.’
Behind his sunglasses, ﬁre glowed. I felt a hot wind in my
hair. ‘We’ll meet again, Percy Jackson. Next time you’re in a
ﬁght, watch your back.’
He revved his Harley, then roared oﬀ down Delancy
Street.
Annabeth said, ‘That was not smart, Percy.’
‘I don’t care.’
‘You don’t want a god as your enemy. Especially not that
god.’
‘Hey, guys,’ Grover said. ‘I hate to interrupt, but…’
He pointed towards the diner. At the cash register, the last
two customers were paying their bill, two men in identical
black coveralls, with a white logo on their backs that
matched the one on the KINDNESS INTERNATIONAL truck.
‘If we’re taking the zoo express,’ Grover said, ‘we need to
hurry.’
I didn’t like it, but we had no better option. Besides, I’d
seen enough of Denver.
We ran across the street and climbed in the back of the
big lorry, closing the doors behind us.
The ﬁrst thing that hit me was the smell. It was like the
world’s biggest pan of kitty litter.
The trailer was dark inside until I uncapped Anaklusmos.
The blade cast a faint bronze light over a very sad scene.
Sitting in a row of ﬁlthy metal cages were three of the most
pathetic zoo animals I’d ever beheld: a zebra, a male albino
lion and some weird antelope thing I didn’t know the name
for.
Someone had thrown the lion a sack of turnips, which he
obviously didn’t want to eat. The zebra and the antelope
had each got a polystyrene tray of hamburger meat. The
zebra’s mane was matted with chewing gum, like somebody
210
had been spitting on it in their spare time. The antelope had
a stupid silver birthday balloon tied to one of his horns that
read OVER THE HILL!
Apparently, nobody had wanted to get close enough to
the lion to mess with him, but the poor thing was pacing
around on soiled blankets, in a space way too small for him,
panting from the stuﬀy heat of the trailer. He had ﬂies
buzzing around his pink eyes and his ribs showed through
his white fur.
‘This is kindness?’ Grover yelled. ‘Humane zoo transport?’
He probably would’ve gone right back outside to beat up
the truckers with his reed pipes, and I would’ve helped him,
but just then the truck’s engine roared to life, the trailer
started shaking, and we were forced to sit down or fall
down.
We huddled in the corner on some mildewed feed sacks,
trying to ignore the smell and the heat and the ﬂies. Grover
talked to the animals in a series of goat bleats, but they just
stared at him sadly. Annabeth was in favour of breaking the
cages and freeing them on the spot, but I pointed out it
wouldn’t do much good until the truck stopped moving.
Besides, I had a feeling we might look a lot better to the lion
than those turnips.
I found a water jug and reﬁlled their bowls, then used
Anaklusmos to drag the mismatched food out of their cages.
I gave the meat to the lion and the turnips to the zebra and
the antelope.
Grover calmed the antelope down, while Annabeth used
her knife to cut the balloon oﬀ his horn. She wanted to cut
the gum out of the zebra’s mane, too, but we decided that
would be too risky with the truck bumping around. We told
Grover to promise the animals we’d help them more in the
morning, then we settled in for the night.
Grover curled up on a turnip sack; Annabeth opened our
bag of Double Stuf Oreos and nibbled on one half-heartedly;
I tried to cheer myself up by concentrating on the fact that
211
we were halfway to Los Angeles. Halfway to our destination.
It was only June fourteenth. The solstice wasn’t until the
twenty-ﬁrst. We could make it in plenty of time.
On the other hand, I had no idea what to expect next. The
gods kept toying with me. At least Hephaestus had the
decency to be honest about it – he’d put up cameras and
advertised me as entertainment. But even when the
cameras weren’t rolling, I had a feeling my quest was being
watched. I was a source of amusement for the gods.
‘Hey,’ Annabeth said, ‘I’m sorry for freaking out back at
the water park, Percy.’
‘That’s okay.’
‘It’s just…’ She shuddered. ‘Spiders.’
‘Because of the Arachne story,’ I guessed. ‘She got turned
into a spider for challenging your mom to a weaving
contest, right?’
Annabeth nodded. ‘Arachne’s children have been taking
revenge on the children of Athena ever since. If there’s a
spider within a mile of me, it’ll ﬁnd me. I hate the creepy
little things. Anyway, I owe you.’
‘We’re a team, remember?’ I said. ‘Besides, Grover did the
fancy ﬂying.’
I thought he was asleep, but he mumbled from the corner,
‘I was pretty amazing, wasn’t I?’
Annabeth and I laughed.
She pulled apart an Oreo, handed me half. ‘In the Iris
message… did Luke really say nothing?’
I munched my cookie and thought about how to answer.
The conversation via rainbow had bothered me all evening.
‘Luke said you and he go way back. He also said Grover
wouldn’t fail this time. Nobody would turn into a pine tree.’
In the dim bronze light of the sword blade, it was hard to
read their expressions.
Grover let out a mournful bray.
‘I should’ve told you the truth from the beginning.’ His
voice trembled. ‘I thought if you knew what a failure I was,
212
you wouldn’t want me along.’
‘You were the satyr who tried to rescue Thalia, the
daughter of Zeus.’
He nodded glumly.
And the other two half-bloods Thalia befriended, the ones
who got safely to camp…’ I looked at Annabeth. ‘That was
you and Luke, wasn’t it?’
She put down her Oreo, uneaten. ‘Like you said, Percy, a
seven-year-old half-blood wouldn’t have made it very far
alone. Athena guided me towards help. Thalia was twelve.
Luke was fourteen. They’d both run away from home, like
me. They were happy to take me with them. They were…
amazing 
monster-ﬁghters, 
even 
without 
training. 
We
travelled north from Virginia without any real plans, fending
oﬀ monsters for about two weeks before Grover found us.’
‘I was supposed to escort Thalia to camp,’ he said,
sniﬄing. ‘Only Thalia. I had strict orders from Chiron: don’t
do anything that would slow down the rescue. We knew
Hades was after her, see, but I couldn’t just leave Luke and
Annabeth by themselves. I thought… I thought I could lead
all three of them to safety. It was my fault the Kindly Ones
caught up with us. I froze. I got scared on the way back to
camp and took some wrong turns. If I’d just been a little
quicker…’
‘Stop it,’ Annabeth said. ‘No one blames you. Thalia didn’t
blame you either.’
‘She sacriﬁced herself to save us,’ he said miserably. ‘Her
death was my fault. The Council of Cloven Elders said so.’
‘Because you wouldn’t leave two other half-bloods
behind?’ I said. ‘That’s not fair.’
‘Percy’s right,’ Annabeth said. ‘I wouldn’t be here today if
it weren’t for you, Grover. Neither would Luke. We don’t care
what the council says.’
Grover kept sniﬄing in the dark. ‘It’s just my luck. I’m the
lamest satyr ever, and I ﬁnd the two most powerful half-
bloods of the century, Thalia and Percy.’
213
‘You’re not lame,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘You’ve got more
courage than any satyr I’ve ever met. Name one other who
would dare go to the Underworld. I bet Percy is really glad
you’re here right now.’
She kicked me in the shin.
‘Yeah,’ I said, which I would’ve done even without the kick.
‘It’s not luck that you found Thalia and me, Grover. You’ve
got the biggest heart of any satyr ever. You’re a natural
searcher. That’s why you’ll be the one who ﬁnds Pan.’
I heard a deep, satisﬁed sigh. I waited for Grover to say
something, but his breathing only got heavier. When the
sound turned to snoring, I realized he’d fallen sleep.
‘How does he do that?’ I marvelled.
‘I don’t know,’ Annabeth said. ‘But that was really a nice
thing you told him.’
‘I meant it.’
We rode in silence for a few miles, bumping around on the
feed sacks. The zebra munched a turnip. The lion licked the
last of the hamburger meat oﬀ his lips and looked at me
hopefully.
Annabeth rubbed her necklace like she was thinking deep,
strategic thoughts.
‘That pine-tree bead,’ I said. ‘Is that from your ﬁrst year?’
She looked. She hadn’t realized what she was doing.
‘Yeah,’ she said. ‘Every August, the counsellors pick the
most important event of the summer, and they paint it on
that year’s beads. I’ve got Thalia’s pine tree, a Greek
trireme on ﬁre, a centaur in a prom dress – now that was a
weird summer…’
‘And the college ring is your father’s?’
‘That’s none of your –’ She stopped herself. ‘Yeah. Yeah, it
is.’
‘You don’t have to tell me.’
‘No… it’s okay.’ She took a shaky breath. ‘My dad sent it
to me folded up in a letter, two summers ago. The ring was,
like, his main keepsake from Athena. He wouldn’t have got
214
through his doctoral programme at Harvard without her…
That’s a long story. Anyway, he said he wanted me to have
it. He apologized for being a jerk, said he loved me and
missed me. He wanted me to come home and live with him.’
‘That doesn’t sound so bad.’
‘Yeah, well… the problem was, I believed him. I tried to go
home for that school year, but my stepmom was the same
as ever. She didn’t want her kids put in danger by living with
a freak. Monsters attacked. We argued. Monsters attacked.
We argued. I didn’t even make it through winter break. I
called Chiron and came right back to Camp Half-Blood.’
‘You think you’ll ever try living with your dad again?’
She wouldn’t meet my eyes. ‘Please. I’m not into self-
inﬂicted pain.’
‘You shouldn’t give up,’ I told her. ‘You should write him a
letter or something.’
‘Thanks for the advice,’ she said coldly, ‘but my father’s
made his choice about who he wants to live with.’
We passed another few miles of silence.
‘So if the gods ﬁght,’ I said, ‘will things line up the way
they did with the Trojan War? Will it be Athena versus
Poseidon?’
She put her head against the backpack Ares had given us,
and closed her eyes. ‘I don’t know what my mom will do. I
just know I’ll ﬁght next to you.’
‘Why?’
‘Because you’re my friend, Seaweed Brain. Any more
stupid questions?’
I couldn’t think of an answer for that. Fortunately I didn’t
have to. Annabeth was asleep.
I had trouble following her example, with Grover snoring
and an albino lion staring hungrily at me, but eventually I
closed my eyes.
* * *
 
215
My nightmare started out as something I’d dreamed a
million times before: I was being forced to take a
standardized test while wearing a straitjacket. All the other
kids were going out to recess, and the teacher kept saying,
Come on, Percy. You’re not stupid are you? Pick up your
pencil.
Then the dream strayed from the usual.
I looked over at the next desk and saw a girl sitting there,
also wearing a strait jacket. She was my age, with unruly
black, punk-style hair, dark eyeliner around her stormy
green eyes, and freckles across her nose. Somehow, I knew
who she was. She was Thalia, daughter of Zeus.
She struggled against the straitjacket, glared at me in
frustration and snapped, Well, Seaweed Brain? One of us
has to get out of here.
She’s right, my dream-self thought. I’m going back to that
cavern. I’m going to give Hades a piece of my mind.
The straitjacket melted oﬀ me. I fell through the classroom
ﬂoor. The teacher’s voice changed until it was cold and evil,
echoing from the depths of a great chasm.
Percy Jackson, it said. Yes, the exchange went well, I see.
I was back in the dark cavern, spirits of the dead drifting
around me. Unseen in the pit, the monstrous thing was
speaking, but this time it wasn’t addressing me. The
numbing power of its voice seemed directed somewhere
else.
And he suspects nothing? it asked.
Another voice, one I almost recognized, answered at my
shoulder. Nothing, my lord. He is as ignorant as the rest.
I looked over, but no one was there. The speaker was
invisible.
Deception upon deception, the thing in the pit mused
aloud. Excellent.
Truly, my lord, said the voice next to me, you are well-
named the Crooked One. But was it really necessary? I could
have brought you what I stole directly –
216
You? the monster said in scorn. You have already shown
your limits. You would have failed me completely had I not
intervened.
But, my lord –
Peace, little servant. Our six months have bought us
much. Zeus’s anger has grown. Poseidon has played his
most desperate card. Now we shall use it against him.
Shortly you shall have the reward you wish, and your
revenge. As soon as both items are delivered into my
hands… but wait. He is here.
What? The invisible servant suddenly sounded tense. You
summoned him, my lord?
No. The full force of the monster’s attention was now
pouring over me, freezing me in place. Blast his father’s
blood – he is too changeable, too unpredictable. The boy
brought himself hither.
Impossible! the servant cried.
For a weakling such as you, perhaps, the voice snarled.
Then its cold power turned back on me. So… you wish to
dream of your quest, young half-blood? Then I will oblige.
The scene changed.
I was standing in a vast throne room with black marble
walls and bronze ﬂoors. The empty, horrid throne was made
from human bones fused together. Standing at the foot of
the dais was my mother, frozen in shimmering golden light,
her arms outstretched.
I tried to step towards her, but my legs wouldn’t move. I
reached for her, only to realize that my hands were
withering to bones. Grinning skeletons in Greek armour
crowded around me, draping me with silk robes, wreathing
my head with laurels that smoked with Chimera poison,
burning into my scalp.
The evil voice began to laugh. Hail, the conquering hero!
I woke with a start.
217
Grover was shaking my shoulder. ‘The truck’s stopped,’ he
said. ‘We think they’re coming to check on the animals.’
‘Hide!’ Annabeth hissed.
She had it easy. She just put on her magic cap and
disappeared. Grover and I had to dive behind feed sacks
and hope we looked like turnips.
The trailer doors creaked open. Sunlight and heat poured
in.
‘Man!’ one of the truckers said, waving his hand in front of
his ugly nose. ‘I wish I hauled appliances.’ He climbed inside
and poured some water from a jug into the animals’ dishes.
‘You hot, big boy?’ he asked the lion, then splashed the
rest of the bucket right in the lion’s face.
The lion roared in indignation.
‘Yeah, yeah, yeah,’ the man said.
Next to me, under the turnip sacks, Grover tensed. For a
peace-loving herbivore, he looked downright murderous.
The trucker threw the antelope a squashed-looking Happy
Meal bag. He smirked at the zebra. ‘How ya doin’, Stripes?
Least we’ll be getting rid of you this stop. You like magic
shows? You’re gonna love this one. They’re gonna saw you
in half!’
The zebra, wild-eyed with fear, looked straight at me.
There was no sound, but as clear as day, I heard it say:
Free me, lord. Please.
I was too stunned to react.
There was a loud knock, knock, knock on the side of the
trailer.
The trucker inside with us yelled, ‘What do you want,
Eddie?’
A voice outside – it must’ve been Eddie’s – shouted back,
‘Maurice? What’d ya say?’
‘What are you banging for?’
Knock, knock, knock.
Outside, Eddie yelled, ‘What banging?’
218
Our guy Maurice rolled his eyes and went back outside,
cursing at Eddie for being an idiot.
A second later, Annabeth appeared next to me. She
must’ve done the banging to get Maurice out of the trailer.
She said, ‘This transport business can’t be legal.’
‘No kidding,’ Grover said. He paused, as if listening. ‘The
lion says these guys are animal smugglers!’
That’s right, the zebra’s voice said in my mind.
‘We’ve got to free them!’ Grover said. He and Annabeth
both looked at me, waiting for my lead.
I’d heard the zebra talk, but not the lion. Why? Maybe it
was another learning disability… I could only understand
zebras? Then I thought: horses. What had Annabeth said
about Poseidon creating horses? Was a zebra close enough
to a horse? Was that why I could understand it?
The zebra said, Open my cage, lord. Please. I’ll be ﬁne
after that.
Outside, Eddie and Maurice were still yelling at each
other, but I knew they’d be coming inside to torment the
animals again any minute. I grabbed Riptide and slashed
the lock oﬀ the zebra’s cage.
The zebra burst out. It turned to me and bowed. Thank
you, lord.
Grover held up his hands and said something to the zebra
in goat talk, like a blessing.
Just as Maurice was poking his head back inside to check
out the noise, the zebra leaped over him and into the street.
There was yelling and screaming and cars honking. We
rushed to the doors of the trailer in time to see the zebra
galloping down a wide boulevard lined with hotels and
casinos and neon signs. We’d just released a zebra in Las
Vegas.
Maurice and Eddie ran after it, with a few policemen
running after them, shouting, ‘Hey! You need a permit for
that!’
‘Now would be a good time to leave,’ Annabeth said.
219
‘The other animals ﬁrst,’ Grover said.
I cut the locks with my sword. Grover raised his hands and
spoke the same goat-blessing he’d used for the zebra.
‘Good luck,’ I told the animals. The antelope and the lion
burst out of their cages and went oﬀ together into the
streets.
Some tourists screamed. Most just backed oﬀ and took
pictures, probably thinking it was some kind of stunt by one
of the casinos.
‘Will the animals be okay?’ I asked Grover. ‘I mean, the
desert and all –’
‘Don’t worry,’ he said. ‘I placed a satyr’s sanctuary on
them.’
‘Meaning?’
‘Meaning they’ll reach the wild safely,’ he said. ‘They’ll
ﬁnd water, food, shade, whatever they need until they ﬁnd a
safe place to live.’
‘Why can’t you place a blessing like that on us?’ I asked.
‘It only works on wild animals.’
‘So it would only aﬀect Percy,’ Annabeth reasoned.
‘Hey!’ I protested.
‘Kidding,’ she said. ‘Come on. Let’s get out of this ﬁlthy
truck.’
We stumbled out into the desert afternoon. It was forty
degrees, easy, and we must’ve looked like deep-fried
vagrants, but everybody was too interested in the wild
animals to pay us much attention.
We passed the Monte Carlo and the MGM. We passed
pyramids, a pirate ship and the Statue of Liberty, which was
a pretty small replica, but still made me homesick.
I wasn’t sure what we were looking for. Maybe just a place
to get out of the heat for a few minutes, ﬁnd a sandwich and
a glass of lemonade, make a new plan for getting west.
We must have taken a wrong turn, because we found
ourselves at a dead end, standing in front of the Lotus Hotel
and Casino. The entrance was a huge neon ﬂower, the
220
petals lighting up and blinking. No one was going in or out,
but the glittering chrome doors were open, spilling out air
conditioning that smelled like ﬂowers – lotus blossom,
maybe. I’d never smelled one, so I wasn’t sure.
The doorman smiled at us. ‘Hey, kids. You look tired. You
want to come in and sit down?’
I’d learned to be suspicious, the last week or so. I ﬁgured
anybody might be a monster or a god. You just couldn’t tell.
But this guy was normal. One look at him, and I could see.
Besides, I was so relieved to hear somebody who sounded
sympathetic that I nodded and said we’d love to come in.
Inside, we took one look around, and Grover said, ‘Whoa.’
The whole lobby was a giant game room. And I’m not
talking about cheesy old Pac-Man games or slot machines.
There was an indoor water slide snaking around the glass
elevator, which went straight up at least forty ﬂoors. There
was a climbing wall on the side of one building, and an
indoor bungee-jumping bridge. There were virtual-reality
suits with working laser guns. And hundreds of video games,
each one the size of a widescreen TV. Basically, you name it,
this place had it. There were a few other kids playing, but
not that many. No waiting for any of the games. There were
waitresses and snack bars all around, serving every kind of
food you can imagine.
‘Hey!’ a bellhop said. At least I guessed he was a bellhop.
He wore a white-and-yellow Hawaiian shirt with lotus
designs, shorts and ﬂip-ﬂops. ‘Welcome to the Lotus Casino.
Here’s your room key.’
I stammered, ‘Um, but…’
‘No, no,’ he said, laughing. ‘The bill’s taken care of. No
extra charges, no tips. Just go on up to the top ﬂoor, room
4001. If you need anything, like extra bubbles for the hot
tub, or skeet targets for the shooting range, or whatever,
just call the front desk. Here are your LotusCash cards. They
work in the restaurants and on all the games and rides.’
He handed us each a green plastic credit card.
221
I knew there must be some mistake. Obviously he thought
we were some millionaire’s kids. But I took the card and
said, ‘How much is on here?’
His eyebrows knit together. ‘What do you mean?’
‘I mean, when does it run out of cash?’
He laughed. ‘Oh, you’re making a joke. Hey, that’s cool.
Enjoy your stay.’
We took the elevator upstairs and checked out our room.
It was a suite with three separate bedrooms and a bar
stocked with candy, sodas and crisps. A hotline to room
service. Fluﬀy towels and waterbeds with feather pillows. A
big-screen television with satellite and high-speed Internet.
The balcony had its own hot tub and, sure enough, there
was a skeet-shooting machine and a shotgun, so you could
launch clay pigeons right out over the Las Vegas skyline and
plug them with your gun. I didn’t see how that could be
legal, but I thought it was pretty cool. The view over the
Strip and the desert was amazing, though I doubted we’d
ever have time to look at the view with a room like this.
‘Oh, goodness,’ Annabeth said. ‘This place is…’
‘Sweet,’ Grover said. ‘Absolutely sweet.’
There were clothes in the closet, and they ﬁtted me. I
frowned, thinking that this was a little strange.
I threw Ares’s backpack in the trash can. Wouldn’t need
that any more. When we left, I could just charge a new one
at the hotel store.
I took a shower, which felt awesome after a week of grimy
travel. I changed clothes, ate a bag of crisps, drank three
Cokes and came out feeling better than I had in a long time.
In the back of my mind, some small problem kept nagging
me. I’d had a dream or something… I needed to talk to my
friends. But I was sure it could wait.
I came out of the bedroom and found that Annabeth and
Grover had also showered and changed clothes. Grover was
eating crisps to his heart’s content, while Annabeth cranked
up the National Geographic Channel.
222
‘All those stations,’ I told her, ‘and you turn on National
Geographic. Are you insane?’
‘It’s interesting.’
‘I feel good,’ Grover said. ‘I love this place.’
Without his even realizing it, the wings sprouted out of his
shoes and lifted him a foot oﬀ the ground, then back down
again.
‘So what now?’ Annabeth asked. ‘Sleep?’
Grover and I looked at each other and grinned. We both
held up our green plastic LotusCash cards.
‘Play time,’ I said.
I couldn’t remember the last time I had so much fun. I
came from a relatively poor family. Our idea of a splurge
was eating out at Burger King and renting a video. A ﬁve-
star Vegas hotel? Forget it.
I bungee-jumped the lobby ﬁve or six times, did the
waterslide, snowboarded the artiﬁcial ski slope and played
virtual-reality laser tag and FBI sharpshooter. I saw Grover a
few times, going from game to game. He really liked the
reverse hunter thing – where the deer go out and shoot the
rednecks. I saw Annabeth playing trivia games and other
brainiac stuﬀ. They had this huge 3-D sim game where you
build your own city, and you could actually see the
holographic buildings rise on the display board. I didn’t think
much of it, but Annabeth loved it.
I’m not sure when I ﬁrst realized something was wrong.
Probably, it was when I noticed the guy standing next to
me at VR sharpshooters. He was about thirteen, I guess, but
his clothes were weird. I thought he was some Elvis
impersonator’s son. He wore bell-bottoms and a red T-shirt
with black piping, and his hair was permed and gelled like a
New Jersey girl’s on homecoming night.
We played a game of sharpshooters together and he said,
‘Groovy, man. Been here two weeks, and the games keep
getting better and better.’
Groovy?
223
Later, while we were talking, I said something “rocked”,
and he looked at me kind of puzzled, as if he’d never heard
the word used that way before.
He said his name was Darrin, but as soon as I started
asking him questions he got bored with me and started to
go back to the computer screen.
I said, ‘Hey, Darrin?’
‘What?’
‘What year is it?’
He frowned at me. ‘In the game?’
‘No. In real life.’
He had to think about it. ‘1977.’
‘No,’ I said, getting a little scared. ‘Really.’
‘Hey, man. Bad vibes. I got a game happening.’
After that he totally ignored me.
I started talking to people, and I found it wasn’t easy. They
were glued to the TV screen, or the video game, or their
food, or whatever. I found a guy who told me it was 1985.
Another guy told me it was 1993. They all claimed they
hadn’t been in here very long, a few days, a few weeks at
most. They didn’t really know and they didn’t care.
Then it occurred to me: how long had I been here? It
seemed like only a couple of hours, but was it?
I tried to remember why we were here. We were going to
Los Angeles. We were supposed to ﬁnd the entrance to the
Underworld. My mother… for a scary second, I had trouble
remembering her name. Sally. Sally Jackson. I had to ﬁnd
her. I had to stop Hades from causing World War III.
I found Annabeth still building her city.
‘Come on,’ I told her. ‘We’ve got to get out of here.’
No response.
I shook her. ‘Annabeth?’
She looked up, annoyed. ‘What?’
‘We need to leave.’
‘Leave? What are you talking about? I’ve just got the
towers –’
224
‘This place is a trap.’
She didn’t respond until I shook her again. ‘What?’
‘Listen. The Underworld. Our quest!’
‘Oh, come on, Percy. Just a few more minutes.’
‘Annabeth, there are people here from 1977. Kids who
have never aged. You check in, and you stay forever.’
‘So?’ she asked. ‘Can you imagine a better place?’
I grabbed her wrist and yanked her away from the game.
‘Hey!’ She screamed and hit me, but nobody else even
bothered looking at us. They were too busy.
I made her look directly in my eyes. I said, ‘Spiders. Large,
hairy spiders.’
That jarred her. Her vision cleared. ‘Oh my gods,’ she said.
‘How long have we –’
‘I don’t know, but we’ve got to ﬁnd Grover.’
We went searching, and found him still playing Virtual
Deer Hunter.
‘Grover!’ we both shouted.
He said, ‘Die, human! Die, silly polluting nasty person!’
‘Grover!’
He turned the plastic gun on me and started clicking, as if
I were just another image from the screen.
I looked at Annabeth, and together we took Grover by the
arms and dragged him away. His ﬂying shoes sprang to life
and started tugging his legs in the other direction as he
shouted, ‘No! I just got to a new level! No!’
The Lotus bellhop hurried up to us. ‘Well, now, are you
ready for your platinum cards?’
‘We’re leaving,’ I told him.
‘Such a shame,’ he said, and I got the feeling that he
really meant it, that we’d be breaking his heart if we went.
‘We just added an entire new ﬂoor full of games for
platinum-card members.’
He held out the cards, and I wanted one. I knew that if I
took one, I’d never leave. I’d stay here, happy forever,
playing games forever, and soon I’d forget my mom, and my
225
quest, and maybe even my own name. I’d be playing virtual
riﬂeman with groovy Disco Darrin forever.
Grover reached for the card, but Annabeth yanked back
his arm and said, ‘No, thanks.’
We walked towards the door, and as we did, the smell of
the food and the sounds of the games seemed to get more
and more inviting. I thought about our room upstairs. We
could just stay the night, sleep in a real bed for once…
Then we burst through the doors of the Lotus Casino and
ran down the sidewalk. It felt like afternoon, about the same
time of day we’d gone into the casino, but something was
wrong. The weather had completely changed. It was stormy,
with heat lightning ﬂashing out in the desert.
Ares’s backpack was slung over my shoulder, which was
odd, because I was sure I had thrown it in the trash can in
room 4001, but at the moment I had other problems to
worry about.
I ran to the nearest newspaper stand and read the year
ﬁrst. Thank the gods, it was the same year it had been when
we went in. Then I noticed the date: June twentieth.
We had been in the Lotus Casino for ﬁve days.
We had only one day left until the summer solstice. One
day to complete our quest.
226
17    We Shop for Waterbeds
 
It was Annabeth’s idea.
She loaded us into the back of a Vegas taxi as if we
actually had money, and told the driver, ‘Los Angeles,
please.’
The cabbie chewed his cigar and sized us up. ‘That’s three
hundred miles. For that, you gotta pay up front.’
‘You accept casino debit cards?’ Annabeth asked.
He shrugged. ‘Some of’ em. Same as credit cards. I gotta
swipe ’em through, ﬁrst.’
Annabeth handed him her green LotusCash card.
He looked at it sceptically.
‘Swipe it,’ Annabeth invited.
He did.
His meter machine started rattling. The lights ﬂashed.
Finally an inﬁnity symbol came up next to the dollar sign.
The cigar fell out of the driver’s mouth. He looked back at
us, his eyes wide. ‘Where to in Los Angeles… uh, Your
Highness?’
‘The Santa Monica pier.’ Annabeth sat up a little
straighter. I could tell she liked the ‘Your Highness’ thing.
‘Get us there fast, and you can keep the change.’
Maybe she shouldn’t have told him that.
The cab’s speedometer never dipped below ninety-ﬁve
the whole way through the Mojave Desert.
On the road, we had plenty of time to talk. I told Annabeth
and Grover about my latest dream, but the details got
227
sketchier the more I tried to remember them. The Lotus
Casino seemed to have short-circuited my memory. I
couldn’t recall what the invisible servant’s voice had
sounded like, though I was sure it was somebody I knew.
The servant had called the monster in the pit something
other than ‘my lord’… some special name or title…
‘The Silent One?’ Annabeth suggested. ‘The Rich One?
Both of those are nicknames for Hades.’
‘Maybe…’ I said, though neither sounded quite right.
‘That throne room sounds like Hades’s,’ Grover said.
‘That’s the way it’s usually described.’
I shook my head. ‘Something’s wrong. The throne room
wasn’t the main part of the dream. And that voice from the
pit… I don’t know. It just didn’t feel like a god’s voice.’
Annabeth’s eyes widened.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘Oh… nothing. I was just – No, it has to be Hades. Maybe
he sent this thief, this invisible person, to get the master
bolt, and something went wrong –’
‘Like what?’
‘I – I don’t know,’ she said. ‘But if he stole Zeus’s symbol
of power from Olympus, and the gods were hunting him, I
mean, a lot of things could go wrong. So this thief had to
hide the bolt, or he lost it somehow. Anyway, he failed to
bring it to Hades. That’s what the voice said in your dream,
right? The guy failed. That would explain what the Furies
were searching for when they came after us on the bus.
Maybe they thought we had retrieved the bolt.’
I wasn’t sure what was wrong with her. She looked pale.
‘But if I’d already retrieved the bolt,’ I said, ‘why would I
be travelling to the Underworld?’
‘To threaten Hades,’ Grover suggested. ‘To bribe or
blackmail him into getting your mom back.’
I whistled. ‘You have evil thoughts for a goat.’
‘Why, thank you.’
228
‘But the thing in the pit said it was waiting for two items,’ I
said. ‘If the master bolt is one, what’s the other?’
Grover shook his head, clearly mystiﬁed.
Annabeth was looking at me as if she knew my next
question, and was silently willing me not to ask it.
‘You have an idea what might be in that pit, don’t you?’ I
asked her. ‘I mean, if it isn’t Hades?’
‘Percy… let’s not talk about it. Because if it isn’t Hades…
No. It has to be Hades.’
Wasteland rolled by. We passed a sign that said:
CALIFORNIA STATE LINE, 12 MILES.
I got the feeling I was missing one simple, critical piece of
information. It was like when I stared at a common word I
should know, but I couldn’t make sense of it because one or
two letters were ﬂoating around. The more I thought about
my quest, the more I was sure that confronting Hades
wasn’t the real answer. There was something else going on,
something even more dangerous.
The problem was: we were 
hurtling towards the
Underworld at ninety-ﬁve miles an hour, betting that Hades
had the master bolt. If we got there and found out we were
wrong, we wouldn’t have time to correct ourselves. The
solstice deadline would pass and war would begin.
‘The answer is in the Underworld,’ Annabeth assured me.
‘You saw spirits of the dead, Percy. There’s only one place
that could be. We’re doing the right thing.’
She tried to boost our morale by suggesting clever
strategies for getting into the Land of the Dead, but my
heart wasn’t in it. There were just too many unknown
factors. It was like cramming for a test without knowing the
subject. And believe me, I’d done that enough times.
The cab sped west. Every gust of wind through Death
Valley sounded like a spirit of the dead. Every time the
brakes hissed on an eighteen-wheeler, it reminded me of
Echidna’s reptilian voice.
229
At sunset, the taxi dropped us at the beach in Santa Monica.
It looked exactly the way L.A. beaches do in the movies,
only it smelled worse. There were carnival rides lining the
pier, palm trees lining the sidewalks, homeless guys
sleeping in the sand dunes and surfer dudes waiting for the
perfect wave.
Grover, Annabeth and I walked down to the edge of the
surf.
‘What now?’ Annabeth asked.
The Paciﬁc was turning gold in the setting sun. I thought
about how long it had been since I’d stood on the beach at
Montauk, on the opposite side of the country, looking out at
a diﬀerent sea.
How could there be a god who could control all that? What
did my science teacher used to say – two-thirds of the
earth’s surface was covered in water? How could I be the
son of someone that powerful?
I stepped into the surf.
‘Percy?’ Annabeth said. ‘What are you doing?’
I kept walking, up to my waist, then my chest.
She called after me, ‘You know how polluted that water is?
There’re all kinds of toxic –’
That’s when my head went under.
I held my breath at ﬁrst. It’s diﬃcult to intentionally inhale
water. Finally I couldn’t stand it any more. I gasped. Sure
enough, I could breathe normally.
I walked down into the shoals. I shouldn’t have been able
to see through the murk, but somehow I could tell where
everything was. I could sense the rolling texture of the
bottom. I could make out sand-dollar colonies dotting the
sandbars. I could even see the currents, warm and cold
streams swirling together.
I felt something rub against my leg. I looked down and
almost shot out of the water like a ballistic missile. Sliding
along beside me was a two-metre-long mako shark.
230
But the thing wasn’t attacking. It was nuzzling me.
Heeling like a dog. Tentatively, I touched its dorsal ﬁn. It
bucked a little, as if inviting me to hold tighter. I grabbed the
ﬁn with both hands. It took oﬀ, pulling me along. The shark
carried me down into the darkness. It deposited me at the
edge of the ocean proper, where the sand bank dropped oﬀ
into a huge chasm. It was like standing on the rim of the
Grand Canyon at midnight, not being able to see much, but
knowing the void was right there.
The surface shimmered maybe ﬁfty metres above. I knew
I should’ve been crushed by the pressure. Then again, I
shouldn’t have been able to breathe. I wondered if there
was a limit to how deep I could go, if I could sink straight to
the bottom of the Paciﬁc.
Then I saw something glimmering in the darkness below,
growing bigger and brighter as it rose towards me. A
woman’s voice, like my mother’s, called: ‘Percy Jackson.’
As she got closer, her shape became clearer. She had
ﬂowing black hair, a dress made of green silk. Light ﬂickered
around her, and her eyes were so distractingly beautiful I
hardly noticed the stallion-sized sea horse she was riding.
She dismounted. The sea horse and the mako shark
whisked oﬀ and started playing something that looked like
tag. The underwater lady smiled at me. ‘You’ve come far,
Percy Jackson. Well done.’
I wasn’t quite sure what to do, so I bowed. ‘You’re the
woman who spoke to me in the Mississippi River.’
‘Yes, child. I am a Nereid, a spirit of the sea. It was not
easy to appear so far upriver, but the naiads, my freshwater
cousins, helped sustain my life force. They honour Lord
Poseidon, though they do not serve in his court.’
‘And… you serve in Poseidon’s court?’
She nodded. ‘It has been many years since a child of the
Sea God has been born. We have watched you with great
interest.’
231
Suddenly I remembered faces in the waves oﬀ Montauk
Beach when I was a little boy, reﬂections of smiling women.
Like so many of the weird things in my life, I’d never given it
much thought before.
‘If my father is so interested in me,’ I said, ‘why isn’t he
here? Why doesn’t he speak to me?’
A cold current rose out of the depths.
‘Do not judge the Lord of the Sea too harshly,’ the Nereid
told me. ‘He stands at the brink of an unwanted war. He has
much to occupy his time. Besides, he is forbidden to help
you directly. The gods may not show such favouritism.’
‘Even to their own children?’
‘Especially to them. The gods can work by indirect
inﬂuence only. That is why I give you a warning, and a gift.’
She held out her hand. Three white pearls ﬂashed in her
palm.
‘I know you journey to Hades’s realm,’ she said. ‘Few
mortals have ever done this and survived: Orpheus, who
had great musical skill; Hercules, who had great strength;
Houdini, who could escape even the depths of Tartarus. Do
you have these talents?’
‘Um… no, ma’am.’
‘Ah, but you have something else, Percy. You have gifts
you have only begun to know. The oracles have foretold a
great and terrible future for you, should you survive to
manhood. Poseidon would not have you die before your
time. Therefore take these, and when you are in need,
smash a pearl at your feet.’
‘What will happen?’
‘That,’ she said, ‘depends on the need. But remember:
what belongs to the sea will always return to the sea.’
‘What about the warning?’
Her eyes ﬂickered with green light. ‘Go with what your
heart tells you, or you will lose all. Hades feeds on doubt
and hopelessness. He will trick you if he can, make you
mistrust your own judgement. Once you are in his realm, he
232
will never willingly let you leave. Keep faith. Good luck,
Percy Jackson.’
She summoned her sea horse and rode towards the void.
‘Wait!’ I called. ‘At the river, you said not to trust the gifts.
What gifts?’
‘Goodbye, young hero,’ she called back, her voice fading
into the depths. ‘You must listen to your heart.’ She became
a speck of glowing green, and then she was gone.
I wanted to follow her down into the darkness. I wanted to
see the court of Poseidon. But I looked up at the sunset
darkening on the surface. My friends were waiting. We had
so little time…
I kicked upwards towards the shore.
When I reached the beach, I told Grover and Annabeth
what had happened, and showed them the pearls.
Annabeth grimaced. ‘No gift comes without a price.’
‘They were free.’
‘No.’ She shook her head. ‘“There is no such thing as a
free lunch.” That’s an ancient Greek saying that translated
pretty well into American. There will be a price. You wait.’
On that happy thought, we turned our backs on the sea.
With some spare change from Ares’s backpack, we took the
bus into West Hollywood. I showed the driver the
Underworld address slip I’d taken from Aunty Em’s Garden
Gnome Emporium, but he’d never heard of DOA Recording
Studios.
‘You remind me of somebody I saw on TV’, he told me.
‘You a child actor or something?’
‘Uh… I’m a stunt double… for a lot of child actors.’
‘Oh! That explains it.’
We thanked him and got oﬀ quickly at the next stop.
We wandered for miles on foot, looking for DOA. Nobody
seemed to know where it was. It didn’t appear in the phone
book.
Twice, we ducked into alleys to avoid cop cars.
233
I froze in front of an appliance store window because a
television was playing an interview with somebody who
looked very familiar – my stepdad, Smelly Gabe. He was
talking to Barbara Walters – I mean, as if he were some kind
of huge celebrity. She was interviewing him in our
apartment, in the middle of a poker game, and there was a
young blonde lady sitting next to him, patting his hand.
A fake tear glistened on his cheek. He was saying,
‘Honest, Ms Walters, if it wasn’t for Sugar here, my grief
counsellor. I’d be a wreck. My stepson took everything I
cared about. My wife… my Camaro… I – I’m sorry. I have
trouble talking about it.’
‘There you have it, America.’ Barbara Walters turned to
the camera. ‘A man torn apart. An adolescent boy with
serious issues. Let me show you, again, the last known
photo of this troubled young fugitive, taken a week ago in
Denver.’
The screen cut to a grainy shot of me, Annabeth and
Grover standing outside the Colorado diner, talking to Ares.
‘Who are the other children in this photo?’ Barbara
Walters asked dramatically. ‘Who is the man with them? Is
Percy Jackson a delinquent, a terrorist, or perhaps the
brainwashed victim of a frightening new cult? When we
come back, we chat with a leading child psychologist. Stay
tuned, America.’
‘C’mon,’ Grover told me. He hauled me away before I
could punch a hole in the appliance-store window.
It got dark, and hungry-looking characters started coming
out on the streets to play. Now, don’t get me wrong. I’m a
New Yorker. I don’t scare easy. But L.A. had a totally diﬀerent
feel from New York. Back home, everything seemed close. It
didn’t matter how big the city was, you could get anywhere
without getting lost. The street pattern and the subway
made sense. There was a system to how things worked. A
kid could be safe as long as he wasn’t stupid.
234
L.A. wasn’t like that. It was spread out, chaotic, hard to
move around. It reminded me of Ares. It wasn’t enough for
L.A. to be big; it had to prove it was big by being loud and
strange and diﬃcult to navigate, too. I didn’t know how we
were ever going to ﬁnd the entrance to the Underworld by
tomorrow, the summer solstice.
We walked past gangbangers, bums and street hawkers,
who looked at us like they were trying to ﬁgure if we were
worth the trouble of mugging.
As we hurried passed the entrance of an alley, a voice
from the darkness said, ‘Hey, you.’
Like an idiot, I stopped.
Before I knew it, we were surrounded. A gang of kids had
circled us. Six of them in all – white kids with expensive
clothes and mean faces. Like the kids at Yancy Academy:
rich brats playing at being bad boys.
Instinctively, I uncapped Riptide.
When the sword appeared out of nowhere, the kids
backed oﬀ, but their leader was either really stupid or really
brave, because he kept coming at me with a switchblade.
I made the mistake of swinging.
The kid yelped. But he must’ve been one hundred percent
mortal, because the blade passed harmlessly right through
his chest. He looked down. ‘What the…’
I ﬁgured I had about three seconds before his shock
turned to anger. ‘Run!’ I screamed at Annabeth and Grover.
We pushed two kids out of the way and raced down the
street, not knowing where we were going. We turned a
sharp corner.
‘There!’ Annabeth shouted.
Only one store on the block looked open, its windows
glaring with neon. The sign above the door said something
like: CRSTUY’S WATREBDE ALPACE.
‘Crusty’s Waterbed Palace?’ Grover translated.
It didn’t sound like a place I’d ever go except in an
emergency, but this deﬁnitely qualiﬁed.
235
We burst through the doors, ran behind a waterbed, and
ducked. A split second later, the gang kids ran past outside.
‘I think we lost them,’ Grover panted.
A voice behind us boomed, ‘Lost who?’
We all jumped.
Standing behind us was a guy who looked like a raptor in
a leisure suit. He was at least two metres tall, with
absolutely no hair. He had grey leathery skin, thick-lidded
eyes, and a cold reptilian smile. He moved towards us
slowly, but I got the feeling he could move fast if he needed
to.
His suit might’ve come from the Lotus Casino. It belonged
back in the seventies, big time. The shirt was silk paisley,
unbuttoned halfway down his hairless chest. The lapels on
his velvet jacket were as wide as landing strips. The silver
chains around his neck – I couldn’t even count them.
‘I’m Crusty,’ he said, with a tartar-yellow smile.
I resisted the urge to say, Yes, you are.
‘Sorry to barge in,’ I told him. ‘We were just, um,
browsing.’
‘You mean hiding from those no-good kids,’ he grumbled.
‘They hang around every night. I get a lot of people in here,
thanks to them. Say, you want to look at a waterbed?’
I was about to say No, thanks, when he put a huge paw on
my shoulder and steered me deeper into the showroom.
There was every kind of waterbed you could imagine:
diﬀerent kinds of wood, diﬀerent patterns of sheets; queen-
size, king-size, emperor-of-the-universe-size.
‘This is my most popular model.’ Crusty spread his hands
proudly over a bed covered with black satin sheets, with
built-in Lava Lamps on the headboard. The mattress
vibrated, so it looked like oil-ﬂavoured jelly.
‘Million-hand massage,’ Crusty told us. ‘Go on, try it out.
Shoot, take a nap. I don’t care. No business today, anyway.’
‘Um,’ I said, ‘I don’t think…’
236
‘Million-hand massage!’ Grover cried, and dived in. ‘Oh,
you guys! This is cool.’
‘Hmm,’ Crusty said, stroking his leathery chin. Almost,
almost.’
‘Almost what?’ I asked.
He looked at Annabeth. ‘Do me a favour and try this one
over here, honey. Might ﬁt.’
Annabeth said, ‘But what –’
He patted her reassuringly on the shoulder and led her
over to the Safari Deluxe model with teakwood lions carved
into the frame and a leopard-patterned bedspread. When
Annabeth didn’t want to lie down, Crusty pushed her.
‘Hey!’ she protested.
Crusty snapped his ﬁngers. ‘Ergo!’
Ropes sprang from the sides of the bed, lashing around
Annabeth, holding her to the mattress.
Grover tried to get up, but ropes sprang from his black-
satin bed, too, and lashed him down.
‘Not cool!’ he yelled, his voice vibrating from the million-
hand massage. ‘Not cool at all!’
The giant looked at Annabeth, then turned towards me
and grinned. ‘Almost, darn it.’
I tried to step away, but his hand shot out and clamped
around the back of my neck. ‘Whoa, kid. Don’t worry. We’ll
ﬁnd you one in a sec.’
‘Let my friends go.’
‘Oh, sure I will. But I got to make them ﬁt, ﬁrst.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘All the beds are exactly six feet, see? Your friends are too
short. Got to make them ﬁt.’
Annabeth and Grover kept struggling.
‘Can’t stand imperfect measurements,’ Crusty muttered.
‘Ergo!’
A new set of ropes leaped out from the top and bottom of
the beds, wrapping around Grover and Annabeth’s ankles,
237
then around their armpits. The ropes started tightening,
pulling my friends from both ends.
‘Don’t worry,’ Crusty told me. ‘These are stretching jobs.
Maybe eight extra centimetres on their spines. They might
even live. Now why don’t we ﬁnd a bed you like, huh?’
‘Percy!’ Grover yelled.
My mind was racing. I knew I couldn’t take on this giant
waterbed salesman alone. He would snap my neck before I
ever got my sword out.
‘Your real name’s not Crusty, is it?’ I asked.
‘Legally, it’s Procrustes,’ he admitted.
‘The Stretcher,’ I said. I remembered the story: the giant
who’d tried to kill Theseus with over-hospitality on his way
to Athens.
‘Yeah,’ the salesman said. ‘But who can pronounce
“Procrustes”? Bad for business. Now “Crusty”, anybody can
say that.’
‘You’re right. It’s got a good ring to it.’
His eyes lit up. ‘You think so?’
‘Oh, absolutely,’ I said. ‘And the workmanship on these
beds? Fabulous!’
He grinned hugely, but his ﬁngers didn’t loosen on my
neck. ‘I tell my customers that. Every time. Nobody bothers
to look at the workmanship. How many built-in Lava Lamp
headboards have you seen?’
‘Not too many.’
‘That’s right!’
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘What are you doing?’
‘Don’t mind her,’ I told Procrustes. ‘She’s impossible.’
The giant laughed. ‘All my customers are. Never six feet
exactly. So inconsiderate. And then they complain about the
ﬁtting.’
‘What do you do if they’re longer than six feet?’
‘Oh, that happens all the time. It’s a simple ﬁx.’
He let go of my neck, but before I could react, he reached
behind a nearby sales desk and brought out a huge double-
238
bladed brass axe. He said, ‘I just centre the subject as best I
can and lop oﬀ whatever hangs over on either end.’
‘Ah,’ I said, swallowing hard. ‘Sensible.’
‘I’m so glad to come across an intelligent customer!’
The ropes were really stretching my friends now.
Annabeth was turning pale. Grover made gurgling sounds
like a strangled goose.
‘So, Crusty…’ I said, trying to keep my voice light. I
glanced 
at 
the 
sales 
tag 
on 
the 
valentine-shaped
Honeymoon Special. ‘Does this one really have dynamic
stabilizers to stop wave motion?’
‘Absolutely. Try it out.’
‘Yeah, maybe I will. But would it work even for a big guy
like you? No waves at all?’
‘Guaranteed.’
‘No way.’
‘Way.’
‘Show me.’
He sat down eagerly on the bed, patted the mattress. ‘No
waves. See?’
I snapped my ﬁngers. ‘Ergo.’
Ropes lashed around Crusty and ﬂattened him against the
mattress.
‘Hey!’ he yelled.
‘Centre him just right,’ I said.
The ropes readjusted themselves at my command.
Crusty’s whole head stuck out the top. His feet stuck out the
bottom.
‘No!’ he said. ‘Wait! This is just a demo.’
I uncapped Riptide. ‘A few simple adjustments…’
I had no qualms about what I was about to do. If Crusty
were human, I couldn’t hurt him anyway. If he was a
monster, he deserved to turn into dust for a while.
‘You drive a hard bargain,’ he told me. ‘I’ll give you thirty
percent oﬀ on selected ﬂoor models!’
‘I think I’ll start with the top.’ I raised my sword.
239
‘No money down! No interest for six months!’
I swung the sword. Crusty stopped making oﬀers.
I cut the ropes on the other beds. Annabeth and Grover
got to their feet, groaning and wincing and cursing me a lot.
‘You look taller,’ I said.
‘Very funny,’ Annabeth said. ‘Be faster next time.’
I looked at the bulletin board behind Crusty’s sales desk.
There was an advertisement for Hermes Delivery Service,
and another for the All-New Compendium of L.A. Area
Monsters – ‘The only Monstrous Yellow Pages you’ll ever
need!’ Under that, a bright orange ﬂier for DOA Recording
Studios, oﬀering commissions for heroes’ souls. ‘We are
always looking for new talent!’ DOA’s address was right
underneath with a map.
‘Come on,’ I told my friends.
‘Give us a minute,’ Grover complained. ‘We were almost
stretched to death!’
‘Then you’re ready for the Underworld,’ I said. ‘It’s only a
block from here.’
240
18    Annabeth Does Obedience School
 
We stood in the shadows of Valencia Boulevard, looking up
at gold letters etched in black marble: DOA RECORDING
STUDIOS.
Underneath, 
stencilled 
on 
the 
glass 
doors: 
NO
SOLICITORS. NO LOITERING. NO LIVING.
It was almost midnight, but the lobby was brightly lit and
full of people. Behind the security desk sat a tough-looking
guard with sunglasses and an earpiece.
I turned to my friends. ‘Okay. You remember the plan.’
‘The plan,’ Grover gulped. ‘Yeah. I love the plan.’
Annabeth said, ‘What happens if the plan doesn’t work?’
‘Don’t think negative.’
‘Right,’ she said. ‘We’re entering the Land of the Dead,
and I shouldn’t think negative.’
I took the pearls out of my pocket, the three milky spheres
the Nereid had given me in Santa Monica. They didn’t seem
like much of a backup in case something went wrong.
Annabeth put her hand on my shoulder. ‘I’m sorry, Percy.
You’re right, we’ll make it. It’ll be ﬁne.’
She gave Grover a nudge.
‘Oh, right!’ he chimed in. ‘We got this far. Well ﬁnd the
master bolt and save your mom. No problem.’
I looked at them both, and felt really grateful. Only a few
minutes before, I’d almost got them stretched to death on
deluxe waterbeds, and now they were trying to be brave for
my sake, trying to make me feel better.
241
I slipped the pearls back in my pocket. ‘Let’s whup some
Underworld butt.’
We walked inside the DOA lobby.
Muzak played softly on hidden speakers. The carpet and
walls were steel grey. Pencil cactuses grew in the corners
like skeleton hands. The furniture was black leather, and
every seat was taken. There were people sitting on couches,
people standing up, people staring out the windows or
waiting for the elevator. Nobody moved, or talked, or did
much of anything. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see
them all just ﬁne, but if I focused on any one of them in
particular, they started looking… transparent. I could see
right through their bodies.
The security guard’s desk was a raised podium, so we had
to look up at him.
He was tall and elegant, with chocolate-coloured skin and
bleached-blond 
hair 
shaved 
military 
style. 
He 
wore
tortoiseshell shades and a silk Italian suit that matched his
hair. A black rose was pinned to his lapel under a silver
name tag.
I read the name tag, then looked at him in bewilderment.
‘Your name is Chiron?’
He leaned across the desk. I couldn’t see anything in his
glasses except my own reﬂection, but his smile was sweet
and cold, like a pythons, right before it eats you.
‘What a precious young lad.’ He had a strange accent –
British, maybe, but also as if he had learned English as a
second language. ‘Tell me, mate, do I look like a centaur?’
‘N-no.’
‘Sir,’ he added smoothly.
‘Sir,’ I said.
He pinched the name tag and ran his ﬁnger under the
letters. ‘Can you read this, mate? It says C-H-A-R-O-N. Say it
with me: CARE-ON.’
‘Charon.’
‘Amazing! Now: Mr Charon.’
242
‘Mr Charon,’ I said.
‘Well done.’ He sat back. ‘I hate being confused with that
old horse-man. And now, how may I help you little dead
ones?’
His question caught in my stomach like a fastball. I looked
at Annabeth for support.
‘We want to go the Underworld,’ she said.
Charon’s mouth twitched. ‘Well, that’s refreshing.’
‘It is?’ she asked.
‘Straightforward and honest. No screaming. No “There
must be a mistake, Mr Charon”.’ He looked us over. ‘How did
you die, then?’
I nudged Grover.
‘Oh,’ he said. ‘Um… drowned… in the bathtub.’
‘All three of you?’ Charon asked.
We nodded.
‘Big bathtub.’ Charon looked mildly impressed. ‘I don’t
suppose you have coins for passage. Normally, with adults,
you see, I could charge your American Express, or add the
ferry price to your last cable bill. But with children… alas,
you never die prepared. Suppose you’ll have to take a seat
for a few centuries.’
‘Oh, but we have coins.’ I set three golden drachmas on
the counter, part of the stash I’d found in Crusty’s oﬃce
desk.
‘Well, now…’ Charon moistened his lips. ‘Real drachmas.
Real golden drachmas. I haven’t seen these in…’
His ﬁngers hovered greedily over the coins.
We were so close.
Then Charon looked at me. That cold stare behind his
glasses seemed to bore a hole through my chest. ‘Here
now,’ he said. ‘You couldn’t read my name correctly. Are you
dyslexic, lad?’
‘No,’ I said. ‘I’m dead.’
Charon leaned forward and took a sniﬀ. ‘You’re not dead. I
should’ve known. You’re a godling.’
243
‘We have to get to the Underworld,’ I insisted.
Charon made a growling sound deep in his throat.
Immediately, all the people in the waiting room got up and
started pacing, agitated, lighting cigarettes, running hands
through their hair, or checking their wristwatches.
‘Leave while you can,’ Charon told us. ‘I’ll just take these
and forget I saw you.’
He started to go for the coins, but I snatched them back.
‘No service, no tip.’ I tried to sound braver than I felt.
Charon growled again – a deep, blood-chilling sound. The
spirits of the dead started pounding on the elevator doors.
‘It’s a shame, too,’ I sighed. ‘We had more to oﬀer.’
I held up the entire bag from Crusty’s stash. I took out a
ﬁstful of drachmas and let the coins spill through my
ﬁngers.
Charon’s growl changed into something more like a lion’s
purr. ‘Do you think I can be bought, godling? Eh… just out of
curiosity, how much have you got there?’
‘A lot,’ I said. ‘I bet Hades doesn’t pay you well enough for
such hard work.’
‘Oh, you don’t know the half of it. How would you like to
babysit these spirits all day? Always “Please don’t let me be
dead” or “Please let me across for free”. I haven’t had a pay
raise in three thousand years. Do you imagine suits like this
come cheap?’
‘You deserve better,’ I agreed. ‘A little appreciation.
Respect. Good pay.’
With each word, I stacked another gold coin on the
counter.
Charon glanced down at his silk Italian jacket, as if
imagining himself in something even better. ‘I must say, lad,
you’re making some sense now. Just a little.’
I stacked another few coins. ‘I could mention a pay raise
while I’m talking to Hades.’
He sighed. ‘The boat’s almost full, anyway. I might as well
add you three and be oﬀ.’
244
He stood, scooped up our money, and said, ‘Come along.’
We pushed through the crowd of waiting spirits, who
started grabbing at our clothes like the wind, their voices
whispering things I couldn’t make out. Charon shoved them
out of the way, grumbling, ‘Freeloaders.’
He escorted us into the elevator, which was already
crowded with souls of the dead, each one holding a green
boarding pass. Charon grabbed two spirits who were trying
to get on with us and pushed them back into the lobby.
‘Right. Now, no one get any ideas while I’m gone,’ he
announced to the waiting room. ‘And if anyone moves the
dial oﬀ my easy-listening station again, I’ll make sure you’re
here for another thousand years. Understand?’
He shut the doors. He put a key card into a slot in the
elevator panel and we started to descend.
‘What happens to the spirits waiting in the lobby?’
Annabeth asked.
‘Nothing,’ Charon said.
‘For how long?’
‘Forever, or until I’m feeling generous.’
‘Oh,’ she said. ‘That’s… fair.’
Charon raised an eyebrow. ‘Whoever said death was fair,
young miss? Wait until it’s your turn. You’ll die soon enough,
where you’re going.’
‘We’ll get out alive,’ I said.
‘Ha.’
I got a sudden dizzy feeling. We weren’t going down any
more, but forward. The air turned misty. Spirits around me
started changing shape. Their modern clothes ﬂickered,
turning into grey hooded robes. The ﬂoor of the elevator
began swaying.
I blinked hard. When I opened my eyes, Charon’s creamy
Italian suit had been replaced by a long black robe. His
tortoiseshell glasses were gone. Where his eyes should’ve
been were empty sockets – like Ares’s eyes, except Charon’s
were totally dark, full of night and death and despair.
245
He saw me looking, and said, ‘Well?’
‘Nothing,’ I managed.
I thought he was grinning, but that wasn’t it. The ﬂesh of
his face was becoming transparent, letting me see straight
through to his skull.
The ﬂoor kept swaying.
Grover said, ‘I think I’m getting seasick.’
When I blinked again, the elevator wasn’t an elevator any
more. We were standing in a wooden barge. Charon was
poling us across a dark, oily river, swirling with bones, dead
ﬁsh and other, stranger things – plastic dolls, crushed
carnations, soggy diplomas with gilt edges.
‘The River Styx,’ Annabeth murmured. ‘It’s so…’
‘Polluted,’ Charon said. ‘For thousands of years, you
humans have been throwing in everything as you come
across – hopes, dreams, wishes that never came true.
Irresponsible waste management, if you ask me.’
Mist curled oﬀ the ﬁlthy water. Above us, almost lost in
the gloom, was a ceiling of stalactites. Ahead, the far shore
glimmered with greenish light, the colour of poison.
Panic closed up my throat. What was I doing here? These
people around me… they were dead.
Annabeth grabbed hold of my hand. Under normal
circumstances, this would’ve embarrassed me, but I
understood how she felt. She wanted reassurance that
somebody else was alive on this boat.
I found myself muttering a prayer, though I wasn’t quite
sure who I was praying to. Down here, only one god
mattered, and he was the one I had come to confront.
The shoreline of the Underworld came into view. Craggy
rocks and black volcanic sand stretched inland about ﬁfty
metres to the base of a high stone wall, which marched oﬀ
in either direction as far as we could see. A sound came
from somewhere nearby in the green gloom, echoing oﬀ the
stones – the howl of a large animal.
246
‘Old Three-Face is hungry,’ Charon said. His smile turned
skeletal in the greenish light. ‘Bad luck for you, godlings.’
The bottom of our boat slid onto the black sand. The dead
began to disembark. A woman holding a little girls hand. An
old man and an old woman hobbling along arm in arm. A
boy no older than I was, shuﬄing silently along in his grey
robe.
Charon said, ‘I’d wish you luck, mate, but there isn’t any
down here. Mind you, don’t forget to mention my pay raise.’
He counted our golden coins into his pouch, then took up
his pole. He warbled something that sounded like a Barry
Manilow song as he ferried the empty barge back across the
river.
We followed the spirits up a well-worn path.
I’m not sure what I was expecting – Pearly Gates, or a big
black portcullis, or something. But the entrance to the
Underworld looked like a cross between airport security and
the Jersey Turnpike.
There were three separate entrances under one huge
black archway that said: YOU ARE NOW ENTERING EREBUS.
Each entrance had a pass-through metal detector mounted
with security cameras. Beyond this were tollbooths manned
by black-robed ghouls like Charon.
The howling of the hungry animal was really loud now, but
I couldn’t see where it was coming from. The three-headed
dog, Cerberus, who was supposed to guard Hades’s door,
was nowhere to be seen.
The dead queued up in the three lines, two marked:
ATTENDANT ON DUTY, and one marked: EZ DEATH. The EZ
DEATH line was moving right along. The other two were
crawling.
‘What do you ﬁgure?’ I asked Annabeth.
‘The fast line must go straight to Asphodel,’ she said. ‘No
contest. They don’t want to risk judgment from the court,
because it might go against them.’
247
‘There’s a court for dead people?’
‘Yeah. Three judges. They switch around who sits on the
bench. King Minos, Thomas Jeﬀerson, Shakespeare – people
like that. Sometimes they look at a life and decide that
person needs a special reward – the Fields of Elysium.
Sometimes they decide on punishment. But most people,
well, they just lived. Nothing special, good or bad. So they
go to the Fields of Asphodel.’
‘And do what?’
Grover said, ‘Imagine standing in a wheat ﬁeld in Kansas.
Forever.’
‘Harsh,’ I said.
‘Not as harsh as that,’ Grover muttered. ‘Look.’
A couple of black-robed ghouls had pulled aside one spirit
and were frisking him at the security desk. The face of the
dead man looked vaguely familiar.
‘He’s that preacher who made the news, remember?’
Grover asked.
‘Oh, yeah.’ I did remember now. We’d seen him on TV a
couple of times at the Yancy Academy dorm. He was this
annoying televangelist from upstate New York who’d raised
millions of dollars for orphanages and then got caught
spending the money on stuﬀ for his mansion, like gold-
plated toilet seats, and an indoor putt-putt golf course. He’d
died in a police chase when his “Lamborghini for the Lord”
went oﬀ a cliﬀ.
I said, ‘What’re they doing to him?’
‘Special punishment from Hades,’ Grover guessed. ‘The
really bad people get his personal attention as soon as they
arrive. The Fu – the Kindly Ones will set up an eternal torture
for him.’
The thought of the Furies made me shudder. I realized I
was in their home territory now. Old Mrs Dodds would be
licking her lips with anticipation.
‘But if he’s a preacher,’ I said, ‘and he believes in a
diﬀerent hell…’
248
Grover shrugged. ‘Who says he’s seeing this place the
way were seeing it? Humans see what they want to see.
They’re very stubborn – er, persistent, that way.’
We got closer to the gates. The howling was so loud now it
shook the ground at my feet, but I still couldn’t ﬁgure out
where it was coming from.
Then, about ﬁfteen metres in front of us, the green mist
shimmered. Standing just where the path split into three
lanes was an enormous shadowy monster.
I hadn’t seen it before because it was half transparent, like
the dead. Until it moved, it blended with whatever was
behind it. Only its eyes and teeth looked solid. And it was
staring straight at me.
My jaw hung open. All I could think to say was, ‘He’s a
Rottweiler.’
I’d always imagined Cerberus as a big black mastiﬀ. But
he was obviously a purebred Rottweiler, except of course
that he was twice the size of a woolly mammoth, mostly
invisible, and had three heads.
The dead walked right up to him – no fear at all. The
ATTENDANT ON DUTY lines parted on either side of him. The
EZ DEATH spirits walked right between his front paws and
under his belly, which they could do without even crouching.
‘I’m starting to see him better,’ I muttered. ‘Why is that?’
‘I think…’ Annabeth moistened her lips. ‘I’m afraid it’s
because we’re getting closer to being dead.’
The dog’s middle head craned towards us. It sniﬀed the
air and growled.
It can smell the living,’ I said.
‘But that’s okay,’ Grover said, trembling next to me.
‘Because we have a plan.’
‘Right,’ Annabeth said. I’d never heard her voice sound
quite so small. ‘A plan.’
We moved towards the monster.
The middle head snarled at us, then barked so loud my
eyeballs rattled.
249
‘Can you understand it?’ I asked Grover.
‘Oh yeah,’ he said. ‘I can understand it.’
‘What’s it saying?’
‘I don’t think humans have a four-letter word that
translates, exactly.’
I took the big stick out of my backpack – a bed post I’d
broken oﬀ Crusty’s Safari Deluxe ﬂoor model. I held it up,
and tried to channel happy dog thoughts towards Cerberus –
Alpo commercials, cute little puppies, ﬁre hydrants. I tried to
smile like I wasn’t about to die.
‘Hey, Big Fella,’ I called up. ‘I bet they don’t play with you
much.’
‘GROWWWLLLL!’
‘Good boy,’ I said weakly.
I waved the stick. The dog’s middle head followed the
movement. The other two heads trained their eyes on me,
completely ignoring the spirits. I had Cerberus’s undivided
attention. I wasn’t sure that was a good thing.
‘Fetch!’ I threw the stick into the gloom, a good solid
throw. I heard it go ker˜sploosh in the River Styx.
Cerberus glared at me, unimpressed. His eyes were
baleful and cold.
So much for the plan.
Cerberus was now making a new kind of growl, deeper
down in his three throats.
‘Um,’ Grover said. ‘Percy?’
‘Yeah?’
‘I just thought you’d want to know.’
‘Yeah?’
‘Cerberus? He’s saying we’ve got ten seconds to pray to
the god of our choice. After that… well… he’s hungry.’
‘Wait!’ Annabeth said. She started riﬂing through her
pack.
Uh-oh, I thought.
‘Five seconds,’ Grover said. ‘Do we run now?’
250
Annabeth produced a red rubber ball the size of a
grapefruit. It was labelled: WATERLAND, DENVER, CO. Before
I could stop her, she raised the ball and marched straight up
to Cerberus.
She shouted, ‘See the ball? You want the ball, Cerberus?
Sit!’
Cerberus looked as stunned as we were.
All three of his heads cocked sideways. Six nostrils dilated.
‘Sit!’ Annabeth called again.
I was sure that any moment she would become the worlds
largest Milkbone dog biscuit.
But instead, Cerberus licked his three sets of lips, shifted
on his haunches, and sat, immediately crushing a dozen
spirits who’d been passing underneath him in the EZ DEATH
line. The spirits made muﬄed hisses as they dissipated, like
the air let out of tyres.
Annabeth said, ‘Good boy!’
She threw Cerberus the ball.
He caught it in his middle mouth. It was barely big enough
for him to chew, and the other heads started snapping at
the middle, trying to get the new toy.
‘Drop it!’ Annabeth ordered.
Cerberus’s heads stopped ﬁghting and looked at her. The
ball was wedged between two of his teeth like a tiny piece
of gum. He made a loud, scary whimper, then dropped the
ball, now slimy and bitten nearly in half, at Annabeth’s feet.
‘Good boy.’ She picked up the ball, ignoring the monster
spit all over it.
She turned towards us. ‘Go now. EZ DEATH line – it’s
faster.’
I said, ‘But –’
‘Now!’ She ordered, in the same tone she was using on
the dog.
Grover and I inched forward warily.
Cerberus started to growl.
251
‘Stay!’ Annabeth ordered the monster. ‘If you want the
ball, stay!’
Cerberus whimpered, but he stayed where he was.
‘What about you?’ I asked Annabeth as we passed her.
‘I know what I’m doing, Percy,’ she muttered. At least, I’m
pretty sure…’
Grover and I walked between the monster’s legs.
Please, Annabeth, I prayed. Don’t tell him to sit again.
We made it through. Cerberus wasn’t any less scary-
looking from the back.
Annabeth said, ‘Good dog!’
She held up the tattered red ball, and probably came to
the same conclusion I did – if she rewarded Cerberus,
there’d be nothing left for another trick.
She threw the ball anyway. The monster’s left mouth
immediately snatched it up, only to be attacked by the
middle head while the right head moaned in protest.
While the monster was distracted, Annabeth walked
briskly under its belly and joined us at the metal detector.
‘How did you do that?’ I asked her, amazed.
‘Obedience school,’ she said breathlessly, and I was
surprised to see there were tears in her eyes. ‘When I was
little, at my dad’s house, we had a Dobermann…’
‘Never mind that,’ Grover said, tugging at my shirt. ‘Come
on!’
We were about to bolt through the EZ DEATH line when
Cerberus moaned pitifully from all three mouths. Annabeth
stopped.
She turned to face the dog, which had done a one-eighty
to look at us.
Cerberus panted expectantly, the tiny red ball in pieces in
a puddle of drool at its feet.
‘Good boy,’ Annabeth said, but her voice sounded
melancholy and uncertain.
The monster’s heads turned sideways, as if worried about
her.
252
‘I’ll bring you another ball soon,’ Annabeth promised
faintly. ‘Would you like that?’
The monster whimpered. I didn’t need to speak dog to
know Cerberus was still waiting for the ball.
‘Good dog. I’ll come visit you soon. I – I promise.’
Annabeth turned to us. ‘Let’s go.’
Grover and I pushed through the metal detector, which
immediately screamed and set oﬀ ﬂashing red lights.
‘Unauthorized possessions! Magic detected!’
Cerberus started to bark.
We burst through the EZ DEATH gate, which started even
more alarms blaring, and raced into the Underworld.
A few minutes later, we were hiding, out of breath, in the
rotten trunk of an immense black tree as security ghouls
scuttled past, yelling for backup from the Furies.
Grover murmured, ‘Well, Percy, what have we learned
today?’
‘That three-headed dogs prefer red rubber balls over
sticks?’
‘No,’ Grover told me. ‘We’ve learned that your plans
really, really bite!’
I wasn’t sure about that. I thought maybe Annabeth and I
had both had the right idea. Even here in the Underworld,
everybody – even monsters – needed a little attention once
in a while.
I thought about that as we waited for the ghouls to pass. I
pretended not to see Annabeth wipe a tear from her cheek
as she listened to the mournful keening of Cerberus in the
distance, longing for his new friend.
253
19    We Find Out the Truth, Sort of
 
Imagine the largest concert crowd you’ve ever seen, a
football ﬁeld packed with a million fans.
Now imagine a ﬁeld a million times that big, packed with
people, and imagine the electricity has gone out, and there
is no noise, no light, no beach ball bouncing around over the
crowd. 
Something 
tragic 
has 
happened 
backstage.
Whispering masses of people are just milling around in the
shadows, waiting for a concert that will never start.
If you can picture that, you have a pretty good idea what
the Fields of Asphodel looked like. The black grass had been
trampled by aeons of dead feet. A warm, moist wind blew
like the breath of a swamp. Black trees – Grover told me
they were poplars – grew in clumps here and there.
The cavern ceiling was so high above us it might’ve been
a bank of storm clouds, except for the stalactites, which
glowed faint grey and looked wickedly pointed. I tried not to
imagine they’d fall on us at any moment, but dotted around
the ﬁelds were several that had fallen and impaled
themselves in the black grass. I guess the dead didn’t have
to worry about little hazards like being speared by
stalactites the size of booster rockets.
Annabeth, Grover and I tried to blend into the crowd,
keeping an eye out for security ghouls. I couldn’t help
looking for familiar faces among the spirits of Asphodel, but
the dead are hard to look at. Their faces shimmer. They all
look slightly angry or confused. They will come up to you
and speak, but their voices sound like chatter, like bats
254
twittering. Once they realize you can’t understand them,
they frown and move away.
The dead aren’t scary. They’re just sad.
We crept along, following the line of new arrivals that
snaked from the main gates towards a black-tented pavilion
with a banner that read:
JUDGMENTS FOR ELYSIUM AND ETERNAL DAMNATION
 
Welcome, Newly Deceased!
 
Out the back of the tent came two much smaller lines.
To the left, spirits ﬂanked by security ghouls were
marched down a rocky path towards the Fields of
Punishment, which glowed and smoked in the distance, a
vast, cracked wasteland with rivers of lava and mineﬁelds
and miles of barbed wire separating the diﬀerent torture
areas. Even from far away, I could see people being chased
by hellhounds, burned at the stake, forced to run naked
through cactus patches or listen to opera music. I could just
make out a tiny hill, with the ant-size ﬁgure of Sisyphus
struggling to move his boulder to the top. And I saw worse
tortures, too – things I don’t want to describe.
The line coming from the right side of the judgment
pavilion was much better. This one led down towards a small
valley surrounded by walls – a gated community, which
seemed to be the only happy part of the Underworld.
Beyond the security gate were neighbourhoods of beautiful
houses from every time period in history, Roman villas and
mediaeval castles and Victorian mansions. Silver and gold
ﬂowers bloomed on the lawns. The grass rippled in rainbow
colours. I could hear laughter and smell barbecue cooking.
Elysium.
255
In the middle of that valley was a glittering blue lake, with
three small islands like a vacation resort in the Bahamas.
The Isles of the Blest, for people who had chosen to be
reborn three times, and three times achieved Elysium.
Immediately I knew that’s where I wanted to go when I died.
‘That’s what it’s all about,’ Annabeth said, like she was
reading my thoughts. ‘That’s the place for heroes.’
But I thought of how few people there were in Elysium,
how tiny it was compared to Asphodel or even Punishment.
So few people did good in their lives. It was depressing.
We left the judgment pavilion and moved deeper into
Asphodel. It got darker. The colours faded from our clothes.
The crowds of chattering spirits began to thin.
After a few miles of walking, we began to hear a familiar
screech in the distance. Looming on the horizon was a
palace of glittering black obsidian. Above the parapets
swirled three dark batlike creatures: the Furies. I got the
feeling they were waiting for us.
‘I suppose it’s too late to turn back,’ Grover said wistfully.
‘We’ll be okay.’ I tried to sound conﬁdent.
‘Maybe we should search some of the other places ﬁrst,’
Grover suggested. ‘Like, Elysium, for instance…’
‘Come on, goat boy.’ Annabeth grabbed his arm.
Grover yelped. His trainers sprouted wings and his legs
shot forward, pulling him away from Annabeth. He landed
ﬂat on his back in the grass.
‘Grover,’ Annabeth chided. ‘Stop messing around.’
‘But I didn’t –’
He yelped again. His shoes were ﬂapping like crazy now.
They levitated oﬀ the ground and started dragging him
away from us.
‘Maia!’ he yelled, but the magic word seemed to have no
eﬀect. ‘Maia, already! 911! Help!’
I got over being stunned and made a grab for Grover’s
hand, but too late. He was picking up speed, skidding
downhill like a bobsled.
256
We ran after him.
Annabeth shouted, ‘Untie the shoes!’
It was a smart idea, but I guess it’s not so easy when your
shoes are pulling you along feet-ﬁrst at full speed. Grover
tried to sit up, but he couldn’t get close to the laces.
We kept after him, trying to keep him in sight as he zipped
between the legs of spirits who chattered at him in
annoyance.
I was sure Grover was going to barrel straight through the
gates of Hades’s palace, but his shoes veered sharply to the
right and dragged him in the opposite direction.
The slope got steeper. Grover picked up speed. Annabeth
and I had to sprint to keep up. The cavern walls narrowed on
either side, and I realized we’d entered some kind of side
tunnel. No black grass or trees now, just rock underfoot, and
the dim light of the stalactites above.
‘Grover!’ I yelled, my voice echoing. ‘Hold on to
something!’
‘What?’ he yelled back.
He was grabbing at gravel, but there was nothing big
enough to slow him down.
The tunnel got darker and colder. The hairs on my arms
bristled. It smelled evil down here. It made me think of
things I shouldn’t even know about – blood spilled on an
ancient stone altar, the foul breath of a murderer.
Then I saw what was ahead of us, and I stopped dead in
my tracks.
The tunnel widened into a huge dark cavern, and in the
middle was a chasm the size of a city block.
Grover was sliding straight towards the edge.
‘Come on, Percy!’ Annabeth yelled, tugging at my wrist.
‘But that’s –’
‘I know!’ she shouted. ‘The place you described in your
dream! But Grover’s going to fall if we don’t catch him.’ She
was right, of course. Grover’s predicament got me moving
again.
257
He was yelling, clawing at the ground, but the winged
shoes kept dragging him towards the pit, and it didn’t look
like we could possibly get to him in time.
What saved him were his hooves.
The ﬂying sneakers had always been a loose ﬁt on him,
and ﬁnally Grover hit a big rock and the left shoe came
ﬂying oﬀ. It sped into the darkness, down into the chasm.
The right shoe kept tugging him along, but not as fast.
Grover was able to slow himself down by grabbing on to the
big rock and using it like an anchor.
He was three metres from the edge of the pit when we
caught him and hauled him back up the slope. The other
winged shoe tugged itself oﬀ, circled around us angrily and
kicked our heads in protest before ﬂying oﬀ into the chasm
to join its twin.
We all collapsed, exhausted, on the obsidian gravel. My
limbs felt like lead. Even my backpack seemed heavier, as if
somebody had ﬁlled it with rocks.
Grover was scratched up pretty bad. His hands were
bleeding. His eyes had gone slit-pupilled, goat style, the
way they did whenever he was terriﬁed.
‘I don’t know how…’ he panted. ‘I didn’t…’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘Listen.’
I heard something – a deep whisper in the darkness.
Another few seconds, and Annabeth said, ‘Percy, this
place –’
‘Shh.’ I stood.
The sound was getting louder, a muttering, evil voice from
far, far below us. Coming from the pit.
Grover sat up. ‘Wh – what’s that noise?’
Annabeth heard it too, now. I could see it in her eyes.
‘Tartarus. The entrance to Tartarus.’
I uncapped Anaklusmos.
The bronze sword expanded, gleaming in the darkness,
and the evil voice seemed to falter, just for a moment,
before resuming its chant.
258
I could almost make out words now, ancient, ancient
words, older even than Greek. As if…
‘Magic,’ I said.
‘We have to get out of here,’ Annabeth said.
Together, we dragged Grover to his hooves and started
back up the tunnel. My legs wouldn’t move fast enough. My
backpack weighed me down. The voice got louder and
angrier behind us, and we broke into a run.
Not a moment too soon.
A cold blast of wind pulled at our backs, as if the entire pit
were inhaling. For a terrifying moment, I lost ground, my
feet slipping in the gravel. If we’d been any closer to the
edge, we would’ve been sucked in.
We kept struggling forward, and ﬁnally reached the top of
the tunnel, where the cavern widened out into the Fields of
Asphodel. The wind died. A wail of outrage echoed from
deep in the tunnel. Something was not happy we’d got
away.
‘What was that?’ Grover panted, when we’d collapsed in
the relative safety of a black poplar grove. ‘One of Hades’s
pets?’
Annabeth and I looked at each other. I could tell she was
nursing an idea, probably the same one she’d got during the
taxi ride to L.A., but she was too scared to share it. That was
enough to terrify me.
I capped my sword, put the pen back in my pocket. ‘Let’s
keep going.’ I looked at Grover. ‘Can you walk?’
He swallowed. ‘Yeah, sure. I never liked those shoes,
anyway.’
He tried to sound brave about it, but he was trembling as
badly as Annabeth and I were. Whatever was in that pit was
nobody’s pet. It was unspeakably old and powerful. Even
Echidna hadn’t given me that feeling. I was almost relieved
to turn my back on that tunnel and head towards the palace
of Hades.
Almost.
259
The Furies circled the parapets, high in the gloom. The outer
walls of the fortress glittered black, and the two-storey-tall
bronze gates stood wide open.
Up close, I saw that the engravings on the gates were
scenes of death. Some were from modern times – an atomic
bomb exploding over a city, a trench ﬁlled with gas mask-
wearing soldiers, a line of African famine victims waiting
with empty bowls – but all of them looked as if they’d been
etched into the bronze thousands of years ago. I wondered if
I was looking at prophecies that had come true.
Inside the courtyard was the strangest garden I’d ever
seen. Multicoloured mushrooms, poisonous shrubs and
weird luminous plants grew without sunlight. Precious jewels
made up for the lack of ﬂowers, piles of rubies as big as my
ﬁst, clumps of raw diamonds. Standing here and there like
frozen party guests were Medusa’s garden statues, petriﬁed
children, satyrs and centaurs, all smiling grotesquely.
In the centre of the garden was an orchard of
pomegranate trees, their orange blooms neon bright in the
dark. ‘The garden of Persephone,’ Annabeth said. ‘Keep
walking.’
I understood why she wanted to move on. The tart smell
of those pomegranates was almost overwhelming. I had a
sudden desire to eat them, but then I remembered the story
of Persephone. One bite of Underworld food, and we would
never be able to leave. I pulled Grover away to keep him
from picking a big juicy one.
We walked up the steps of the palace, between black
columns, through a black marble portico and into the house
of Hades. The entry hall had a polished bronze ﬂoor, which
seemed to boil in the reﬂected torchlight. There was no
ceiling, just the cavern roof, far above. I guess they never
had to worry about rain down here.
Every side doorway was guarded by a skeleton in military
gear. Some wore Greek armour, some British redcoat
uniforms, some camouﬂage with tattered American ﬂags on
260
the shoulders. They carried spears or muskets or M-16s.
None of them bothered us, but their hollow eye sockets
followed us as we walked down the hall, towards the big set
of doors at the opposite end.
Two U.S. Marine skeletons guarded the doors. They
grinned down at us, rocket-propelled grenade launchers
held across their chests.
‘You know,’ Grover mumbled, ‘I bet Hades doesn’t have
trouble with door-to-door salesmen.’
My backpack weighed a ton now. I couldn’t ﬁgure out why.
I wanted to open it, check to see if I had some-how picked
up a stray bowling ball, but this wasn’t the time.
‘Well, guys,’ I said. ‘I suppose we should… knock?’
A hot wind blew down the corridor, and the doors swung
open. The guards stepped aside.
‘I guess that means “entrez,”,’ Annabeth said.
The room inside looked just like in my dream, except this
time the throne of Hades was occupied.
He was the third god I’d met, but the ﬁrst who really
struck me as godlike.
He was at least three metres tall, for one thing, and
dressed in black silk robes and a crown of braided gold. His
skin was albino white, his hair shoulder-length and jet black.
He wasn’t bulked up like Ares, but he radiated power. He
lounged on his throne of fused human bones, looking lithe,
graceful and dangerous as a panther.
I immediately felt like he should be giving the orders. He
knew more than I did. He should be my master. Then I told
myself to snap out of it.
Hades’s aura was aﬀecting me, just as Ares’s had. The
Lord of the Dead resembled pictures I’d seen of Adolph
Hitler, or Napoleon, or the terrorist leaders who direct
suicide bombers. Hades had the same intense eyes, the
same kind of mesmerizing, evil charisma.
‘You are brave to come here, Son of Poseidon,’ he said in
an oily voice. ‘After what you have done to me, very brave
261
indeed. Or perhaps you are simply very foolish.’
Numbness crept into my joints, tempting me to lie down
and just take a little nap at Hades’s feet. Curl up here and
sleep forever.
I fought the feeling and stepped forward. I knew what I
had to say. ‘Lord and Uncle, I come with two requests.’
Hades raised an eyebrow. When he sat forward in his
throne, shadowy faces appeared in the folds of his black
robes, faces of torment, as if the garment were stitched of
trapped souls from the Fields of Punishment, trying to get
out. The ADHD part of me wondered, oﬀ-task, whether the
rest of his clothes were made the same way. What horrible
things would you have to do in your life to get woven into
Hades’s underwear?
‘Only two requests?’ Hades said. ‘Arrogant child. As if you
have not already taken enough. Speak, then. It amuses me
not to strike you dead yet.’
I swallowed. This was going about as well as I’d feared.
I glanced at the empty, smaller throne next to Hades’s. It
was shaped like a black ﬂower, gilded with gold. I wished
Queen Persephone were here. I recalled something in the
myths about how she could calm her husband’s moods. But
it was summer. Of course, Persephone would be above in
the world of light with her mother, the goddess of
agriculture Demeter. Her visits, not the tilt of the earth,
created the seasons.
Annabeth cleared her throat. Her ﬁnger prodded me in the
back.
‘Lord Hades,’ I said. ‘Look, sir, there can’t be a war among
the gods. It would be… bad.’
‘Really bad,’ Grover added helpfully.
‘Return Zeus’s master bolt to me,’ I said. ‘Please, sir. Let
me carry it to Olympus.’
Hades’s eyes grew dangerously bright. ‘You dare keep up
this pretence, after what you have done?’
262
I glanced back at my friends. They looked as confused as I
was.
‘Um… Uncle,’ I said. ‘You keep saying “after what I’ve
done”. What exactly have I done?’
The throne room shook with a tremor so strong they
probably felt it upstairs in Los Angeles. Debris fell from the
cavern ceiling. Doors burst open all along the walls, and
skeletal warriors marched in, hundreds of them, from every
time period and nation in Western civilization. They lined the
perimeter of the room, blocking the exits.
Hades bellowed, ‘Do you think I want war, godling?’
I wanted to say, Well, these guys don’t look like peace
activists. But I thought that might be a dangerous answer.
‘You are the Lord of the Dead,’ I said carefully. ‘A war
would expand your kingdom, right?’
‘A typical thing for my brothers to say! Do you think I need
more subjects? Did you not see the sprawl of Asphodel?’
‘Well…’
‘Have you any idea how much my kingdom has swollen in
this past century alone, how many subdivisions I’ve had to
open?’
I opened my mouth to respond, but Hades was on a roll
now.
‘More security ghouls,’ he moaned. ‘Traﬃc problems at
the judgment pavilion. Double overtime for the staﬀ. I used
to be a rich god, Percy Jackson. I control all the precious
metals under the earth. But my expenses!’
‘Charon wants a pay raise,’ I blurted, just remembering
the fact. As soon as I said it, I wished I could sew up my
mouth.
‘Don’t get me started on Charon!’ Hades yelled. ‘He’s
been impossible ever since he discovered Italian suits!
Problems everywhere, and I’ve got to handle all of them
personally. The commute time alone from the palace to the
gates is enough to drive me insane! And the dead just keep
263
arriving. No, godling. I need no help getting subjects! I did
not ask for this war.’
‘But you took Zeus’s master bolt.’
‘Lies!’ More rumbling. Hades rose from his throne,
towering to the height of a football goalpost. ‘Your father
may fool Zeus, boy, but I am not so stupid. I see his plan.’
‘His plan?’
‘You were the thief on the winter solstice,’ he said. ‘Your
father thought to keep you his little secret. He directed you
into the throne room on Olympus. You took the master bolt
and my helmet. Had I not sent my Fury to discover you at
Yancy Academy, Poseidon might have succeeded in hiding
his scheme to start a war. But now you have been forced
into the open. You will be exposed as Poseidon’s thief, and I
will have my helmet back!’
‘But…’ Annabeth spoke. I could tell her mind was going a
million miles an hour. ‘Lord Hades, your helmet of darkness
is missing, too?’
‘Do not play innocent with me, girl. You and the satyr have
been helping this hero – coming here to threaten me in
Poseidon’s name, no doubt – to bring me an ultimatum.
Does Poseidon think I can be blackmailed into supporting
him?’
‘No!’ I said. ‘Poseidon didn’t – I didn’t –’
‘I have said nothing of the helmet’s disappearance,’
Hades snarled, ‘because I had no illusions that anyone on
Olympus would oﬀer me the slightest justice, the slightest
help. I can ill aﬀord for word to get out that my most
powerful weapon of fear is missing. So I searched for you
myself, and when it was clear you were coming to me to
deliver your threat, I did not try to stop you.’
‘You didn’t try to stop us? But –’
‘Return my helmet now, or I will stop death,’ Hades
threatened. ‘That is my counter-proposal. I will open the
earth and have the dead pour back into the world. I will
264
make your lands a nightmare. And you, Percy Jackson – your
skeleton will lead my army out of Hades.’
The skeletal soldiers all took one step forward, making
their weapons ready.
At that point, I probably should have been terriﬁed. The
strange thing was, I felt oﬀended. Nothing gets me angrier
than being accused of something I didn’t do. I’ve had a lot
of experience with that.
‘You’re as bad as Zeus,’ I said. ‘You think I stole from you?
That’s why you sent the Furies after me?’
‘Of course,’ Hades said.
‘And the other monsters?’
Hades curled his lip. ‘I had nothing to do with them. I
wanted no quick death for you – I wanted you brought
before me alive so you might face every torture in the Fields
of Punishment. Why do you think I let you enter my kingdom
so easily?’
‘Easily?’
‘Return my property!’
‘But I don’t have your helmet. I came for the master bolt.’
‘Which you already possess!’ Hades shouted. ‘You came
here with it. little fool, thinking you could you threaten me!’
‘But I didn’t!’
‘Open your pack, then.’
A horrible feeling struck me. The weight in my backpack,
like a bowling ball. It couldn’t be…
I slung it oﬀ my shoulder and unzipped it. Inside was a
sixty-centimetre-long metal cylinder, spiked on both ends,
humming with energy.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said. ‘How –’
‘I – I don’t know. I don’t understand.’
‘You heroes are always the same,’ Hades said. ‘Your pride
makes you foolish, thinking you could bring such a weapon
before me. I did not ask for Zeus’s master bolt, but since it
is here, you will yield it to me. I am sure it will make an
265
excellent bargaining tool. And now… my helmet. Where is
it?’
I was speechless. I had no helmet. I had no idea how the
master bolt had got into my backpack. I wanted to think
Hades was pulling some kind of trick. Hades was the bad
guy. But suddenly the world turned sideways. I realized I’d
been played with. Zeus, Poseidon and Hades had been set
at each other’s throats by someone else. The master bolt
had been in the backpack, and I’d got the backpack from…
‘Lord Hades, wait,’ I said. ‘This is all a mistake.’
‘A mistake?’ Hades roared.
The skeletons aimed their weapons. From high above,
there was a ﬂuttering of leathery wings, and the three Furies
swooped down to perch on the back of their master’s
throne. The one with Mrs Dodds’s face grinned at me
eagerly and ﬂicked her whip.
‘There is no mistake,’ Hades said. ‘I know why you have
come – I know the real reason you brought the bolt. You
came to bargain for her.’
Hades loosed a ball of gold ﬁre from his palm. It exploded
on the steps in front of me, and there was my mother,
frozen in a shower of gold, just as she was at the moment
when the Minotaur began to squeeze her to death.
I couldn’t speak. I reached out to touch her, but the light
was as hot as a bonﬁre.
‘Yes,’ Hades said with satisfaction. ‘I took her. I knew,
Percy Jackson, that you would come to bargain with me
eventually. Return my helmet, and perhaps I will let her go.
She is not dead, you know. Not yet. But if you displease me,
that will change.’
I thought about the pearls in my pocket. Maybe they could
get me out of this. If I could just get my mom free…
‘Ah, the pearls,’ Hades said, and my blood froze. ‘Yes, my
brother and his little tricks. Bring them forth, Percy Jackson.’
My hand moved against my will and brought out the
pearls.
266
‘Only three,’ Hades said. ‘What a shame. You do realize
each only protects a single person. Try to take your mother,
then, little godling. And which of your friends will you leave
behind to spend eternity with me? Go on. Choose. Or give
me the backpack and accept my terms.’
I looked at Annabeth and Grover. Their faces were grim.
‘We were tricked,’ I told them. ‘Set up.’
‘Yes, but why?’ Annabeth asked. ‘And the voice in the pit
–’
‘I don’t know yet,’ I said. ‘But I intend to ask.’
‘Decide, boy!’ Hades yelled.
‘Percy.’ Grover put his hand on my shoulder. ‘You can’t
give him the bolt.’
‘I know that.’
‘Leave me here,’ he said. ‘Use the third pearl on your
mom.’
‘No!’
‘I’m a satyr,’ Grover said. ‘We don’t have souls like
humans do. He can torture me until I die, but he won’t get
me forever. I’ll just be reincarnated as a ﬂower or
something. It’s the best way.’
‘No.’ Annabeth drew her bronze knife. ‘You two go on.
Grover, you have to protect Percy. You have to get your
searcher’s licence and start your quest for Pan. Get his mom
out of here. I’ll cover you. I plan to go down ﬁghting.’
‘No way,’ Grover said. ‘I’m staying behind.’
‘Think again, goat boy,’ Annabeth said.
‘Stop it, both of you!’ I felt like my heart was being ripped
in two. They had both been with me through so much. I
remembered Grover dive-bombing Medusa in the statue
garden, and Annabeth saving us from Cerberus; we’d
survived Hephaestus’s Waterland ride, the St Louis Arch, the
Lotus Casino. I had spent thousands of miles worried that I’d
be betrayed by a friend, but these friends would never do
that. They had done nothing but save me, over and over,
and now they wanted to sacriﬁce their lives for my mom.
267
‘I know what to do,’ I said. ‘Take these.’
I handed them each a pearl.
Annabeth said, ‘But, Percy…’
I turned and faced my mother. I desperately wanted to
sacriﬁce myself and use the last pearl on her, but I knew
what she would say. She would never allow it. I had to get
the bolt back to Olympus and tell Zeus the truth. I had to
stop the war. She would never forgive me if I saved her
instead. I thought about the prophecy made at Half-Blood
Hill what seemed like a million years ago. You will fail to
save what matters most in the end.
‘I’m sorry,’ I told her. ‘I’ll be back. I’ll ﬁnd a way.’
The smug look on Hades’s face faded. He said,
‘Godling…?’
‘I’ll ﬁnd your helmet, Uncle,’ I told him. ‘I’ll return it.
Remember about Charon’s pay raise.’
‘Do not defy me –’
‘And it wouldn’t hurt to play with Cerberus once in a while.
He likes red rubber balls.’
‘Percy Jackson, you will not –’
I shouted, ‘Now, guys!’
We smashed the pearls at our feet. For a scary moment,
nothing happened.
Hades yelled, ‘Destroy them!’
The army of skeletons rushed forward, swords out, guns
clicking to full automatic. The Furies lunged, their whips
bursting into ﬂame.
Just as the skeletons opened ﬁre, the pearl exploded at
my feet with a burst of green light and a gust of fresh sea
wind. I was encased in a milky white sphere, which was
starting to ﬂoat oﬀ the ground.
Annabeth and Grover were right behind me. Spears and
bullets sparked harmlessly oﬀ the pearl bubbles as we
ﬂoated up. Hades yelled with such rage, the entire fortress
shook and I knew it was not going to be a peaceful night in
L.A.
268
‘Look up!’ Grover yelled. ‘We’re going to crash!’
Sure enough, we were racing right towards the stalactites,
which I ﬁgured would pop our bubbles and skewer us.
‘How do you control these things?’ Annabeth shouted.
‘I don’t think you do!’ I shouted back.
We screamed as the bubbles slammed into the ceiling
and… Darkness.
Were we dead?
No, I could still feel the racing sensation. We were going
up, right through solid rock as easily as an air bubble in
water. That was the power of the pearls, I realized – What
belongs to the sea will always return to the sea.
For a few moments, I couldn’t see anything outside the
smooth walls of my sphere, then my pearl broke through on
the ocean ﬂoor. The two other milky spheres, Annabeth and
Grover, kept pace with me as we soared upward through the
water. And ker-blam!
We exploded on the surface, in the middle of Los Angeles
Bay, knocking a surfer oﬀ his board with an indignant,
‘Dude!’
I grabbed Grover and hauled him over to a lifebuoy. I
caught Annabeth and dragged her over too. A curious shark
was circling us, a great white about three metres long.
I said, ‘Beat it.’
The shark turned and raced away.
The surfer screamed something about bad mushrooms
and paddled away from us as fast as he could.
Somehow, I knew what time it was: early morning, June
21, the day of the summer solstice.
In the distance, Los Angeles was on ﬁre, plumes of smoke
rising from neighbourhoods all over the city. There had been
an earthquake, all right, and it was Hades’s fault. He was
probably sending an army of the dead after me right now.
But at the moment, the Underworld wasn’t my biggest
problem.
269
I had to get to shore. I had to get Zeus’s thunderbolt back
to Olympus. Most of all, I had to have a serious conversation
with the god who’d tricked me.
270
20    I Battle My Jerk Relative
 
A Coast Guard boat picked us up, but they were too busy to
keep us for long, or to wonder how three kids in street
clothes had got out into the middle of the bay. There was a
disaster to mop up. Their radios were jammed with distress
calls.
They dropped us oﬀ at the Santa Monica pier with towels
around our shoulders and water bottles that said I’M A
JUNIOR COAST GUARD! and sped oﬀ to save more people.
Our clothes were sopping wet, even mine. When the Coast
Guard boat had appeared, I’d silently prayed they wouldn’t
pick me out of the water and ﬁnd me perfectly dry, which
might’ve raised some eyebrows. So I’d willed myself to get
soaked. Sure enough, my usual waterproof magic had
abandoned me. I was also barefoot, because I’d given my
shoes to Grover. Better the Coast Guard wonder why one of
us was barefoot than wonder why one of us had hooves.
After reaching dry land, we stumbled down the beach,
watching the city burn against a beautiful sunrise. I felt as if
I’d just come back from the dead – which I had. My
backpack was heavy with Zeus’s master bolt. My heart was
even heavier from seeing my mother.
‘I don’t believe it,’ Annabeth said. ‘We went all that way –’
‘It was a trick,’ I said. A strategy worthy of Athena.’
‘Hey,’ she warned.
‘You get it, don’t you?’
She dropped her eyes, her anger fading. ‘Yeah. I get it.’
‘Well, I don’t!’ Grover complained. ‘Would somebody –’
271
‘Percy…’ Annabeth said. ‘I’m sorry about your mother. I’m
so sorry….’
I pretended not to hear her. If I talked about my mother, I
was going to start crying like a little kid.
‘The prophecy was right,’ I said. ‘“You shall go west and
face the god who has turned.’ But it wasn’t Hades. Hades
didn’t want war between the Big Three. Someone else
pulled oﬀ the theft. Someone stole Zeus’s master bolt, and
Hades’s helmet, and framed me because I’m Poseidon’s kid.
Poseidon will get blamed by both sides. By sundown today,
there will be a three-way war. And I’ll have caused it.’
Grover shook his head, mystiﬁed. ‘But who would be that
sneaky? Who would want war that bad?’
I stopped in my tracks, looking down the beach. ‘Gee, let
me think.’
There he was, waiting for us, in his black leather duster
and his sunglasses, an aluminum baseball bat propped on
his shoulder. His motorcycle rumbled beside him, its
headlight turning the sand red.
‘Hey, kid,’ Ares said, seeming genuinely pleased to see
me. ‘You were supposed to die.’
‘You tricked me,’ I said. ‘You stole the helmet and the
master bolt.’
Ares grinned. ‘Well, now, I didn’t steal them personally.
Gods taking each other’s symbols of power – that’s a big no-
no. But you’re not the only hero in the world who can run
errands.’
‘Who did you use? Clarisse? She was there at the winter
solstice.’
The idea seemed to amuse him. ‘Doesn’t matter. The
point is, kid, you’re impeding the war eﬀort. See, you’ve got
to die in the Underworld. Then Old Seaweed will be mad at
Hades for killing you. Corpse Breath will have Zeus’s master
bolt, so Zeus’ll be mad at him. And Hades is still looking for
this…’
272
From his pocket he took out a ski cap – the kind bank
robbers wear – and placed it between the handlebars of his
bike. Immediately, the cap transformed into an elaborate
bronze war helmet.
‘The helmet of darkness,’ Grover gasped.
‘Exactly,’ Ares said. ‘Now where was I? Oh yeah, Hades
will be mad at both Zeus and Poseidon, because he doesn’t
know who took this. Pretty soon, we got a nice little three-
way slugfest going.’
‘But they’re your family!’ Annabeth protested.
Ares shrugged. ‘Best kind of war. Always the bloodiest.
Nothing like watching your relatives ﬁght, I always say.’
‘You gave me the backpack in Denver,’ I said. ‘The master
bolt was in there the whole time.’
‘Yes and no,’ Ares said. ‘It’s probably too complicated for
your little mortal brain to follow, but the backpack is the
master bolt’s sheath, just morphed a bit. The bolt is
connected to it, sort of like that sword you got, kid. It always
returns to your pocket, right?’
I wasn’t sure how Ares knew about that, but I guess a god
of war had to make it his business to know about weapons.
‘Anyway,’ Ares continued, ‘I tinkered with the magic a bit,
so the bolt would only return to the sheath once you
reached the Underworld. You get close to Hades… Bingo,
you got mail. If you died along the way – no loss. I still had
the weapon.’
‘But why not just keep the master bolt for yourself?’ I said.
‘Why send it to Hades?’
Ares got a twitch in his jaw. For a moment, it was almost
as if he were listening to another voice, deep inside his
head. ‘Why didn’t I… yeah… with that kind of ﬁre-power…’
He held the trance for one second… two seconds…
I exchanged nervous looks with Annabeth.
Ares’s face cleared. ‘I didn’t want the trouble. Better to
have you caught redhanded, holding the thing.’
273
‘You’re lying,’ I said. ‘Sending the bolt to the Underworld
wasn’t your idea, was it?’
‘Of course it was!’ Smoke drifted up from his sunglasses,
as if they were about to catch ﬁre.
‘You didn’t order the theft,’ I guessed. ‘Someone else sent
a hero to steal the two items. Then, when Zeus sent you to
hunt him down, you caught the thief. But you didn’t turn him
over to Zeus. Something convinced you to let him go. You
kept the items until another hero could come along and
complete the delivery. That thing in the pit is ordering you
around.’
‘I am the god of war! I take orders from no one! I don’t
have dreams!’
I hesitated. ‘Who said anything about dreams?’
Ares looked agitated, but he tried to cover it with a smirk.
‘Let’s get back to the problem at hand, kid. You’re alive. I
can’t have you taking that bolt to Olympus. You just might
get those hardheaded idiots to listen to you. So I’ve got to
kill you. Nothing personal.’
He snapped his ﬁngers. The sand exploded at his feet and
out charged a wild boar, even larger and uglier than the one
whose head hung above the door of cabin seven at Camp
Half-Blood. The beast pawed the sand, glaring at me with
beady eyes as it lowered its razor-sharp tusks and waited for
the command to kill.
I stepped into the surf. ‘Fight me yourself, Ares.’
He laughed, but I heard a little edge to his laughter… an
uneasiness. ‘You’ve only got one talent, kid, running away.
You ran from the Chimera. You ran from the Underworld. You
don’t have what it takes.’
‘Scared?’
‘In your adolescent dreams.’ But his sunglasses were
starting to melt from the heat of his eyes. ‘No direct
involvement. Sorry, kid. You’re not at my level.’
Annabeth said, ‘Percy, run!’
The giant boar charged.
274
But I was done running from monsters. Or Hades, or Ares,
or anybody.
As the boar rushed me, I uncapped my pen and
sidestepped. Riptide appeared in my hands. I slashed
upward. The boar’s severed right tusk fell at my feet, while
the disoriented animal charged into the sea.
I shouted, ‘Wave!’
Immediately, a wave surged up from nowhere and
engulfed the boar, wrapping around it like a blanket. The
beast squealed once in terror. Then it was gone, swallowed
by the sea.
I turned back to Ares. ‘Are you going to ﬁght me now?’ I
asked. ‘Or are you going to hide behind another pet pig?’
Ares’s face was purple with rage. ‘Watch it, kid. I could
turn you into –’
‘A cockroach,’ I said. ‘Or a tapeworm. Yeah, I’m sure.
That’d save you from getting your godly hide whipped,
wouldn’t it?’
Flames danced along the top of his glasses. ‘Oh, man, you
are really asking to be smashed into a grease spot.’
‘If I lose, turn me into anything you want. Take the bolt. If I
win, the helmet and the bolt are mine and you have to go
away.’
Ares sneered.
He swung the baseball bat oﬀ his shoulder. ‘How would
you like to get smashed: classic or modern?’
I showed him my sword.
‘That’s cool, dead boy,’ he said. ‘Classic it is.’ The baseball
bat changed into a huge, two-handed sword. The hilt was a
large silver skull with a ruby in its mouth.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said. ‘Don’t do this. He’s a god.’
‘He’s a coward,’ I told her.
She swallowed. ‘Wear this, at least. For luck.’
She took oﬀ her necklace, with her ﬁve years’ worth of
camp beads and the ring from her father, and tied it around
my neck.
275
‘Reconciliation,’ she said. ‘Athena and Poseidon together.’
My face felt a little warm, but I managed a smile. ‘Thanks.’
‘And take this,’ Grover said. He handed me a ﬂattened tin
can that he’d probably been saving in his pocket for a
thousand miles. ‘The satyrs stand behind you.’
‘Grover… I don’t know what to say.’
He patted me on the shoulder. I stuﬀed the tin can in my
back pocket.
‘You all done saying goodbye?’ Ares came towards me, his
black leather duster trailing behind him, his sword glinting
like ﬁre in the sunrise. ‘I’ve been ﬁghting for eternity, kid.
My strength is unlimited and I cannot die. What have you
got?’
A smaller ego, I thought, but I said nothing. I kept my feet
in the surf, backing into the water up to my ankles. I
thought back to what Annabeth had said at the Denver
diner, so long ago: Ares has strength. That’s all he has. Even
strength has to how to wisdom sometimes.
He cleaved downward at my head, but I wasn’t there.
My body thought for me. The water seemed to push me
into the air and I catapulted over him, slashing as I came
down. But Ares was just as quick. He twisted, and the strike
that should’ve caught him directly in the spine was
deﬂected oﬀ the end of his sword hilt.
He grinned. ‘Not bad, not bad.’
He slashed again and I was forced to jump onto dry land. I
tried to sidestep, to get back to the water, but Ares seemed
to know what I wanted. He outmanoeuvred me, pressing so
hard I had to put all my concentration on not getting sliced
into pieces. I kept backing away from the surf. I couldn’t ﬁnd
any openings to attack. His sword had a reach a metre
longer than Anaklusmos.
Get in close, Luke had told me once, back in our sword
class. When you’ve got the shorter blade, get in close.
I stepped inside with a thrust, but Ares was waiting for
that. He knocked my blade out of my hands and kicked me
276
in the chest. I went airborne – ﬁfteen, maybe twenty metres.
I would’ve broken my back if I hadn’t crashed into the soft
sand of a dune.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘Cops!’
I was seeing double. My chest felt like it had just been hit
with a battering ram, but I managed to get to my feet.
I couldn’t look away from Ares for fear he’d slice me in
half, but out of the corner of my eye I saw red lights ﬂashing
on the shoreline boulevard. Car doors were slamming.
‘There, oﬃcer!’ somebody yelled. ‘See?’
A gruﬀ cop voice: ‘Looks like that kid on TV… what the
heck…’
‘That guy’s armed,’ another cop said. ‘Call for backup.’
I rolled to one side as Ares’s blade slashed the sand.
I ran for my sword, scooped it up, and launched a swipe at
Ares’s face, only to ﬁnd my blade deﬂected again.
Ares seemed to know exactly what I was going to do the
moment before I did it.
I stepped back towards the surf, forcing him to follow.
‘Admit it, kid,’ Ares said. ‘You got no hope. I’m just toying
with you.’
My senses were working overtime. I now understood what
Annabeth had said about ADHD keeping you alive in battle. I
was wide awake, noticing every little detail.
I could see where Ares was tensing. I could tell which way
he would strike. At the same time, I was aware of Annabeth
and Grover, ten metres to my left. I saw a second cop car
pulling up, siren wailing. Spectators, people who had been
wandering the streets because of the earthquake, were
starting to gather. Among the crowd, I thought I saw a few
who were walking with the strange, trotting gait of disguised
satyrs. There were shimmering forms of spirits, too, as if the
dead had risen from Hades to watch the battle. I heard the
ﬂap of leathery wings circling somewhere above.
More sirens.
277
I stepped further into the water, but Ares was fast. The tip
of his blade ripped my sleeve and grazed my forearm.
A police voice on a megaphone said, ‘Drop the guns! Set
them on the ground. Now!’
Guns?
I looked at Ares’s weapon, and it seemed to be ﬂickering;
sometimes it looked like a shotgun, sometimes a two-
handed sword. I didn’t know what the humans were seeing
in my hands, but I was pretty sure it wouldn’t make them
like me.
Ares turned to glare at our spectators, which gave me a
moment to breathe. There were ﬁve police cars now, and a
line of oﬃcers crouching behind them, pistols trained on us.
‘This is a private matter!’ Ares bellowed. ‘Be gone!’
He swept his hand, and a wall of red ﬂame rolled across
the patrol cars. The police barely had time to dive for cover
before their vehicles exploded. The crowd behind them
scattered, screaming.
Ares roared with laughter. ‘Now, little hero. Let’s add you
to the barbecue.’
He slashed. I deﬂected his blade. I got close enough to
strike, tried to fake him out with a feint, but my blow was
knocked aside. The waves were hitting me in the back now.
Ares was up to his thighs, wading in after me.
I felt the rhythm of the sea, the waves growing larger as
the tide rolled in, and suddenly I had an idea. Little waves, I
thought. And the water behind me seemed to recede. I was
holding back the tide by force of will, but tension was
building, like carbonation behind a cork.
Ares came towards me, grinning conﬁdently. I lowered my
blade, as if I were too exhausted to go on. Wait for it, I told
the sea. The pressure now was almost lifting me oﬀ my feet.
Ares raised his sword. I released the tide and jumped,
rocketing straight over Ares on a wave.
A two-metre wall of water smashed him full in the face,
leaving him cursing and sputtering with a mouth full of
278
seaweed. I landed behind him with a splash and feinted
towards his head, as I’d done before. He turned in time to
raise his sword, but this time he was disoriented, he didn’t
anticipate the trick. I changed direction, lunged to the side
and stabbed Riptide straight down into the water, sending
the point through the god’s heel.
The roar that followed made Hades’s earthquake look like
a minor event. The very sea was blasted back from Ares,
leaving a wet circle of sand ﬁfteen metres wide.
Ichor, the golden blood of the gods, ﬂowed from a gash in
the war god’s boot. The expression on his face was beyond
hatred. It was pain, shock, complete disbelief that he’d been
wounded.
He limped towards me, muttering ancient Greek curses.
Something stopped him.
It was as if a cloud covered the sun, but worse. Light
faded. Sound and colour drained away. A cold, heavy
presence passed over the beach, slowing time, dropping the
temperature to freezing and making me feel like life was
hopeless, ﬁghting was useless.
The darkness lifted.
Ares looked stunned.
Police cars were burning behind us. The crowd of
spectators had ﬂed. Annabeth and Grover stood on the
beach, in shock, watching the water ﬂood back around
Ares’s feet, his glowing golden ichor dissipating in the tide.
Ares lowered his sword.
‘You have made an enemy, godling,’ he told me. ‘You have
sealed your fate. Every time you raise your blade in battle,
every time you hope for success, you will feel my curse.
Beware, Perseus Jackson. Beware.’
His body began to glow.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth shouted. ‘Don’t watch!’
I turned away as the god Ares revealed his true immortal
form. I somehow knew that if I looked, I would disintegrate
into ashes.
279
The light died.
I looked back. Ares was gone. The tide rolled out to reveal
Hades’s bronze helmet of darkness. I picked it up and
walked towards my friends.
But before I got there, I heard the ﬂapping of leathery
wings. Three evil-looking grandmothers with lace hats and
ﬁery whips drifted down from the sky and landed in front of
me.
The middle Fury, the one who had been Mrs Dodds,
stepped forward. Her fangs were bared, but for once she
didn’t look threatening. She looked more disappointed, as if
she’d been planning to have me for supper, but had decided
I might give her indigestion.
‘We saw the whole thing,’ she hissed. ‘So… it truly was
not you?’
I tossed her the helmet, which she caught in surprise.
‘Return that to Lord Hades,’ I said. ‘Tell him the truth. Tell
him to call oﬀ the war.’
She hesitated, then ran a forked tongue over her green,
leathery lips. ‘Live well, Percy Jackson. Become a true hero.
Because if you do not, if you ever come into my clutches
again…’
She cackled, savouring the idea. Then she and her sisters
rose on their bat’s wings, ﬂuttered into the smoke-ﬁlled sky
and disappeared.
I joined Grover and Annabeth, who were staring at me in
amazement.
‘Percy…’ Grover said. ‘That was so incredibly…’
‘Terrifying,’ said Annabeth.
‘Cool!’ Grover corrected.
I didn’t feel terriﬁed. I certainly didn’t feel cool. I was tired
and sore and completely drained of energy.
‘Did you guys feel that… whatever it was?’ I asked.
They both nodded uneasily.
‘Must’ve been the Furies overhead,’ Grover said.
280
But I wasn’t so sure. Something had stopped Ares from
killing me, and whatever could do that was a lot stronger
than the Furies.
I looked at Annabeth, and an understanding passed
between us. I knew now what was in that pit, what had
spoken from the entrance of Tartarus.
I reclaimed my backpack from Grover and looked inside.
The master bolt was still there. Such a small thing to almost
cause World War III.
‘We have to get back to New York,’ I said. ‘By tonight.’
‘That’s impossible,’ Annabeth said, ‘unless we –’
‘Fly,’ I agreed.
She stared at me. ‘Fly, like, in an aeroplane, which you
were warned never to do lest Zeus strike you out of the sky,
and carrying a weapon that has more destructive power
than a nuclear bomb?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Pretty much exactly like that. Come on.’
281
21    I Settle My Tab
 
It’s funny how humans can wrap their mind around things
and ﬁt them into their version of reality. Chiron had told me
that long ago. As usual, I didn’t appreciate his wisdom until
much later.
According to the L.A. news, the explosion at the Santa
Monica beach had been caused when a crazy kidnapper
ﬁred a shotgun at a police car. He accidentally hit a gas
main that had ruptured during the earthquake.
This crazy kidnapper (a.k.a. Ares) was the same man who
had abducted me and two other adolescents in New York
and brought us across country on a ten-day odyssey of
terror.
Poor little Percy Jackson wasn’t an international criminal,
after all. He’d caused a commotion on that Greyhound bus
in New Jersey trying to get away from his captor (and
afterwards, witnesses would even swear they had seen the
leather-clad man on the bus – ‘Why didn’t I remember him
before?’) The crazy man had caused the explosion in the St
Louis Arch. After all, no kid could’ve done that. A concerned
waitress in Denver had seen the man threatening his
abductees outside her diner, gotten a friend to take a photo
and notiﬁed the police. Finally, brave Percy Jackson (I was
beginning to like this kid) had stolen a gun from his captor
in Los Angeles and battled him shotgun-to-riﬂe on the
beach. Police had arrived just in time. But in the spectacular
explosion, ﬁve police cars had been destroyed and the
282
captor had ﬂed. No fatalities had occurred. Percy Jackson
and his two friends were safely in police custody.
The reporters fed us this whole story. We just nodded and
acted tearful and exhausted (which wasn’t hard), and
played victimized kids for the cameras.
‘All I want,’ I said, choking back my tears, ‘is to see my
loving stepfather again. Every time I saw him on TV, calling
me a delinquent punk, I knew… somehow… we would be
okay. And I know he’ll want to reward each and every person
in this beautiful city of Los Angeles with a free major
appliance from his store. Here’s the phone number.’ The
police and reporters were so moved that they passed
around the hat and raised money for three tickets on the
next plane to New York.
I knew there was no choice but to ﬂy. I hoped Zeus would
cut me some slack, considering the circumstances. But it
was still hard to force myself on board the ﬂight.
Takeoﬀ was a nightmare. Every spot of turbulence was
scarier than a Greek monster. I didn’t unclench my hands
from the armrests until we touched down safely at La
Guardia. The local press was waiting for us outside security,
but we managed to evade them thanks to Annabeth, who
lured them away in her invisible Yankees cap, shouting,
‘They’re over by the frozen yogurt! Come on!’, then rejoined
us at baggage claim.
We split up at the taxi stand. I told Annabeth and Grover
to get back to Half-Blood Hill and let Chiron know what had
happened. They protested, and it was hard to let them go
after all we’d been through, but I knew I had to do this last
part of the quest by myself. If things went wrong, if the gods
didn’t believe me… I wanted Annabeth and Grover to
survive to tell Chiron the truth.
I hopped in a taxi and headed into Manhattan.
Thirty minutes later, I walked into the lobby of the Empire
State Building.
283
I must have looked like a homeless kid, with my tattered
clothes and my scraped-up face. I hadn’t slept in at least
twenty-four hours.
I went up to the guard at the front desk and said, ‘Six
hundredth ﬂoor.’
He was reading a huge book with a picture of a wizard on
the front. I wasn’t much into fantasy, but the book must’ve
been good, because the guard took a while to look up. ‘No
such ﬂoor, kiddo.’
‘I need an audience with Zeus.’
He gave me a vacant smile. ‘Sorry?’
‘You heard me.’
I was about to decide this guy was just a regular mortal,
and I’d better run for it before he called the straitjacket
patrol, when he said, ‘No appointment, no audience, kiddo.
Lord Zeus doesn’t see anyone unannounced.’
‘Oh, I think he’ll make an exception.’ I slipped oﬀ my
backpack and unzipped the top.
The guard looked inside at the metal cylinder, not getting
what it was for a few seconds. Then his face went pale.
‘That isn’t…’
‘Yes, it is,’ I promised. ‘You want me take it out and –’
‘No! No!’ He scrambled out of his seat, fumbled around his
desk for a key card, then handed it to me. ‘Insert this in the
security slot. Make sure nobody else is in the elevator with
you.’
I did as he told me. As soon as the elevator doors closed, I
slipped the key into the slot. The card disappeared and a
new button appeared on the console, a red one that said
600.
I pressed it and waited, and waited.
Muzak played. ‘Raindrops keep falling on my head…’
Finally, ding. The doors slid open. I stepped out and
almost had a heart attack.
I was standing on a narrow stone walkway in the middle of
the air. Below me was Manhattan, from the height of an
284
aeroplane. In front of me, white marble steps wound up the
spine of a cloud, into the sky. My eyes followed the stairway
to its end, where my brain just could not accept what I saw.
Look again, my brain said.
We’re looking, my eyes insisted. It’s really there.
From the top of the clouds rose the decapitated peak of a
mountain, its summit covered with snow. Clinging to the
mountainside were dozens of multilevelled palaces – a city
of mansions – all with white-columned porticos, gilded
terraces and bronze braziers glowing with a thousand ﬁres.
Roads wound crazily up to the peak, where the largest
palace gleamed against the snow. Precariously perched
gardens bloomed with olive trees and rosebushes. I could
make out an open-air market ﬁlled with colourful tents, a
stone amphitheatre built on one side of the mountain, a
hippodrome and a coliseum on the other. It was an Ancient
Greek city, except it wasn’t in ruins. It was new, and clean,
and colourful, the way Athens must’ve looked twenty-ﬁve
hundred years ago.
This place can’t be here, I told myself. The tip of a
mountain hanging over New York City like a billion-ton
asteroid? How could something like that be anchored above
the Empire State Building, in plain sight of millions of
people, and not get noticed?
But here it was. And here I was.
My trip through Olympus was a daze. I passed some
giggling wood nymphs who threw olives at me from their
garden. Hawkers in the market oﬀered to sell me ambrosia-
on-a-stick, and a new shield, and a genuine glitter-weave
replica of the Golden Fleece, as seen on Hephaestus-TV The
nine muses were tuning their instruments for a concert in
the park while a small crowd gathered – satyrs and naiads
and a bunch of good-looking teenagers who might’ve been
minor gods and goddesses. Nobody seemed worried about
an impending civil war. In fact, everybody seemed in a
285
festive mood. Several of them turned to watch me pass, and
whispered to themselves.
I climbed the main road, towards the big palace at the
peak. It was a reverse copy of the palace in the Underworld.
There, everything had been black and bronze. Here,
everything glittered white and silver.
I realized Hades must’ve built his palace to resemble this
one. He wasn’t welcomed in Olympus except on winter
solstice, so he’d built his own Olympus underground.
Despite my bad experience with him, I felt a little sorry for
the guy. To be banished from this place seemed really unfair.
It would make anybody bitter.
Steps led up to a central courtyard. Past that, the throne
room.
Room really isn’t the right word. The place made Grand
Central Station look like a broom closet. Massive columns
rose to a domed ceiling, which was gilded with moving
constellations.
Twelve thrones, built for beings the size of Hades, were
arranged in an inverted U, just like the cabins at Camp Half-
Blood. An enormous ﬁre crackled in the central hearth pit.
The thrones were empty except for two at the end: the head
throne on the right, and the one to its immediate left. I
didn’t have to be told who the two gods were that were
sitting there, waiting for me to approach. I came towards
them, my legs trembling.
The gods were in giant human form, as Hades had been,
but I could barely look at them without feeling a tingle, as if
my body were starting to burn. Zeus, the Lord of the Gods,
wore a dark blue, pinstriped suit. He sat on a simple throne
of solid platinum. He had a well-trimmed beard, marbled
grey and black like a storm cloud. His face was proud and
handsome and grim, his eyes rainy grey. As I got nearer to
him, the air crackled and smelled of ozone.
The god sitting next to him was his brother, without a
doubt, but he was dressed very diﬀerently. He reminded me
286
of a beachcomber from Key West. He wore leather sandals,
khaki Bermuda shorts, and a Tommy Bahama shirt with
coconuts and parrots all over it. His skin was deeply tanned,
his hands scarred like an old-time ﬁsherman’s. His hair was
black, like mine. His face had that same brooding look that
had always got me branded a rebel. But his eyes, sea-green
like mine, were surrounded by sun-crinkles that told me he
smiled a lot, too.
His throne was a deep-sea ﬁsherman’s chair. It was the
simple swivelling kind, with a black leather seat and a built-
in holster for a ﬁshing pole. Instead of a pole, the holster
held a bronze trident, ﬂickering with green light around the
tips.
The gods weren’t moving or speaking, but there was
tension in the air, as if they’d just ﬁnished an argument.
I approached the ﬁsherman’s throne and knelt at his feet.
‘Father.’ I dared not look up. My heart was racing. I could
feel the energy emanating from the two gods. If I said the
wrong thing, I had no doubt they could blast me into dust.
To my left, Zeus spoke. ‘Should you not address the
master of this house ﬁrst, boy?’
I kept my head down, and waited.
‘Peace, brother,’ Poseidon ﬁnally said. His voice stirred my
oldest memories: that warm glow I remembered as a baby,
the sensation of this god’s hand on my forehead. ‘The boy
defers to his father. This is only right.’
‘You still claim him then?’ Zeus asked menacingly. ‘You
claim this child whom you sired against our sacred oath?’
‘I have admitted my wrongdoing,’ Poseidon said. ‘Now I
would hear him speak.’
Wrongdoing.
A lump welled up in my throat. Was that all I was? A
wrongdoing? The result of a god’s mistake?
‘I have spared him once already,’ Zeus grumbled. ‘Daring
to ﬂy through my domain… pah! I should have blasted him
out of the sky for his impudence.’
287
‘And risk destroying your own master bolt?’ Poseidon
asked calmly. ‘Let us hear him out, brother.’
Zeus grumbled some more. ‘I shall listen,’ he decided.
‘Then I shall make up my mind whether or not to cast this
boy down from Olympus.’
‘Perseus,’ Poseidon said. ‘Look at me.’
I did, and I wasn’t sure what I saw in his face. There was
no clear sign of love or approval. Nothing to encourage me.
It was like looking at the ocean: some days, you could tell
what mood it was in. Most days, though, it was unreadable,
mysterious.
I got the feeling Poseidon really didn’t know what to think
of me. He didn’t know whether he was happy to have me as
a son or not. In a strange way, I was glad that Poseidon was
so distant. If he’d tried to apologize, or told me he loved me,
or even smiled, it would’ve felt fake. Like a human dad,
making some lame excuse for not being around. I could live
with that. After all, I wasn’t sure about him yet, either.
‘Address Lord Zeus, boy,’ Poseidon told me. ‘Tell him your
story.’
So I told Zeus everything, just as it had happened. I took
out the metal cylinder, which began sparking in the Sky
Gods presence, and laid it at his feet.
There was a long silence, broken only by the crackle of the
hearth ﬁre.
Zeus opened his palm. The lightning bolt ﬂew into it. As
he closed his ﬁst, the metallic points ﬂared with electricity,
until he was holding what looked more like the classic
thunderbolt, a ﬁve-metre javelin of arcing, hissing energy
that made the hairs on my scalp rise.
‘I sense the boy tells the truth,’ Zeus muttered. ‘But that
Ares would do such a thing… it is most unlike him.’
‘He is proud and impulsive,’ Poseidon said. ‘It runs in the
family.’
‘Lord?’ I asked.
They both said, ‘Yes?’
288
‘Ares didn’t act alone. Someone else – something else –
came up with the idea.’
I described my dreams, and the feeling I’d had on the
beach, that momentary breath of evil that had seemed to
stop the world and made Ares back oﬀ from killing me.
‘In the dreams,’ I said, ‘the voice told me to bring the bolt
to the Underworld. Ares hinted that he’d been having
dreams, too. I think he was being used, just as I was, to start
a war.’
‘You are accusing Hades, after all?’ Zeus asked.
‘No,’ I said. ‘I mean, Lord Zeus, I’ve been in the presence
of Hades. This feeling on the beach was diﬀerent. It was the
same thing I felt when I got close to that pit. That was the
entrance to Tartarus, wasn’t it? Something powerful and evil
is stirring down there… something even older than the
gods.’
Poseidon and Zeus looked at each other. They had a quick,
intense discussion in Ancient Greek. I only caught one word.
Father.
Poseidon made some kind of suggestion, but Zeus cut him
oﬀ. Poseidon tried to argue. Zeus held up his hand angrily.
‘We will speak of this no more,’ Zeus said. ‘I must go
personally to purify this thunderbolt in the waters of
Lemnos, to remove the human taint from its metal.’
He rose and looked at me. His expression softened just a
fraction of a degree. ‘You have done me a service, boy. Few
heroes could have accomplished as much.’
‘I had help, sir,’ I said. ‘Grover Underwood and Annabeth
Chase –’
‘To show you my thanks, I shall spare your life. I do not
trust you, Perseus Jackson. I do not like what your arrival
means for the future of Olympus. But for the sake of peace
in the family, I shall let you live.’
‘Um… thank you, sir.’
‘Do not presume to ﬂy again. Do not let me ﬁnd you here
when I return. Otherwise you shall taste this bolt. And it
289
shall be your last sensation.’
Thunder shook the palace. With a blinding ﬂash of
lightning, Zeus was gone.
I was alone in the throne room with my father.
‘Your uncle,’ Poseidon sighed, ‘has always had a ﬂair for
dramatic exits. I think he would’ve done well as the god of
theatre.’
An uncomfortable silence.
‘Sir,’ I said, ‘what was in that pit?’
Poseidon regarded me. ‘Have you not guessed?’
‘Kronos,’ I said. ‘The king of the Titans.’
Even in the throne room of Olympus, far away from
Tartarus, the name Kronos darkened the room, made the
hearth ﬁre seem not quite so warm on my back.
Poseidon gripped his trident. ‘In the First War, Percy, Zeus
cut our father, Kronos, into a thousand pieces, just as
Kronos had done to his own father, Ouranos. Zeus cast
Kronos’s remains into the darkest pit of Tartarus. The Titan
army was scattered, their mountain fortress on Etna
destroyed, their monstrous allies driven to the furthest
corners of the earth. And yet Titans cannot die, any more
than we gods can. Whatever is left of Kronos is still alive in
some hideous way, still conscious in his eternal pain, still
hungering for power.’
‘He’s healing,’ I said. ‘He’s coming back.’
Poseidon shook his head. ‘From time to time, over the
aeons, Kronos has stirred. He enters men’s nightmares and
breathes evil thoughts. He wakens restless monsters from
the depths. But to suggest he could rise from the pit is
another thing.’
‘That’s what he intends, Father. That’s what he said.’
Poseidon was silent for a long time.
‘Lord Zeus has closed discussion on this matter. He will
not allow talk of Kronos. You have completed your quest,
child. That is all you need to do.’
290
‘But –’ I stopped myself. Arguing would do no good. It
would very possibly anger the only god who I had on my
side. ‘As… as you wish, Father.’
A faint smile played on his lips. ‘Obedience does not come
naturally to you, does it?’
‘No… sir.’
‘I must take some blame for that, I suppose. The sea does
not like to be restrained.’ He rose to his full height and took
up his trident. Then he shimmered and became the size of a
regular man, standing directly in front of me. ‘You must go,
child. But ﬁrst, know that your mother has returned.’
I stared at him, completely stunned. ‘My mother?’
‘You will ﬁnd her at home. Hades sent her when you
recovered his helmet. Even the Lord of Death pays his
debts.’
My heart was pounding. I couldn’t believe it. ‘Do you…
would you…’
I wanted to ask if Poseidon would come with me to see
her, but then I realized that was ridiculous. I imagined
loading the God of the Sea into a taxi and taking him to the
Upper East Side. If he’d wanted to see my mom all these
years, he would have. And there was Smelly Gabe to think
about.
Poseidon’s eyes took on a little sadness. ‘When you return
home, Percy, you must make an important choice. You will
ﬁnd a package waiting in your room.’
‘A package?’
‘You will understand when you see it. No one can choose
your path, Percy. You must decide.’
I nodded, though I didn’t know what he meant.
‘Your mother is a queen among women,’ Poseidon said
wistfully. ‘I had not met such a mortal woman in a thousand
years. Still… I am sorry you were born, child. I have brought
you a hero’s fate, and a hero’s fate is never happy. It is
never anything but tragic.’
291
I tried not to feel hurt. Here was my own dad, telling me
he was sorry I’d been born. ‘I don’t mind, Father.’
‘Not yet, perhaps,’ he said. ‘Not yet. But it was an
unforgivable mistake on my part.’
‘I’ll leave you then.’ I bowed awkwardly. ‘I – I won’t bother
you again.’
I was ﬁve steps away when he called, ‘Perseus.’
I turned.
There was a diﬀerent light in his eyes, a ﬁery kind of
pride. ‘You did well, Perseus. Do not misunderstand me.
Whatever else you do, know that you are mine. You are a
true son of the Sea God.’
As I walked back through the city of the gods,
conversations stopped. The muses paused their concert.
People and satyrs and naiads all turned towards me, their
faces ﬁlled with respect and gratitude and, as I passed, they
knelt, as if I were some kind of hero.
* * *
 
Fifteen minutes later, still in a trance, I was back on the
streets of Manhattan.
I caught a taxi to my mom’s apartment, rang the doorbell,
and there she was – my beautiful mother, smelling of
peppermint 
and 
licorice, 
the 
weariness 
and 
worry
evaporating from her face as soon as she saw me.
‘Percy! Oh, thank goodness. Oh, my baby.’
She crushed the air right out of me. We stood in the
hallway as she cried and ran her hands through my hair.
I’ll admit it – my eyes were a little misty, too. I was
shaking, I was so relieved to see her.
She told me she’d just appeared at the apartment that
morning, scaring Gabe half out of his wits. She didn’t
remember anything since the Minotaur, and couldn’t believe
it when Gabe told her I was a wanted criminal, travelling
292
across the country, blowing up national monuments. She’d
been going out of her mind with worry all day because she
hadn’t heard the news. Gabe had forced her to go into work,
saying she had a month’s salary to make up and she’d
better get started.
I swallowed back my anger and told her my own story. I
tried to make it sound less scary than it had been, but that
wasn’t easy. I was just getting to the ﬁght with Ares when
Gabe’s voice interrupted from the living room. ‘Hey, Sally!
That meat loaf done yet or what?’
She closed her eyes. ‘He isn’t going to be happy to see
you, Percy. The store got half a million phone calls today
from Los Angeles… something about free appliances.’
‘Oh, yeah. About that…’
She managed a weak smile. ‘Just don’t make him angrier,
all right? Come on.’
In the month I’d been gone, the apartment had turned
into Gabeland. Garbage was ankle-deep on the carpet. The
sofa had been reupholstered in beer cans. Dirty socks and
underwear hung oﬀ the lampshades.
Gabe and three of his big goony friends were playing
poker at the table.
When Gabe saw me, his cigar dropped out of his mouth.
His face got redder than lava. ‘You got nerve coming here,
you little punk. I thought the police –’
‘He’s not a fugitive after all,’ my mom interjected. ‘Isn’t
that wonderful, Gabe?’
Gabe looked back and forth between us. He didn’t seem
to think my homecoming was so wonderful.
‘Bad enough I had to give back your life insurance money,
Sally,’ he growled. ‘Get me the phone. I’ll call the cops.’
‘Gabe, no!’
He raised his eyebrows. ‘Did you just say “no”? You think
I’m gonna put up with this punk again? I can still press
charges against him for ruining my Camaro.’
‘But –’
293
He raised his hand, and my mother ﬂinched.
For the ﬁrst time, I realized something. Gabe had hit my
mother. I didn’t know when, or how much. But I was sure
he’d done it. Maybe it had been going on for years, when I
wasn’t around.
A balloon of anger started expanding in my chest. I came
towards Gabe, instinctively taking my pen out of my pocket.
He just laughed. ‘What, punk? You gonna write on me? You
touch me, and you are going to jail forever, you
understand?’
‘Hey, Gabe,’ his friend Eddie interrupted. ‘He’s just a kid.’
Gabe looked at him resentfully and mimicked in a falsetto
voice: ‘Just a kid!’
His other friends laughed like idiots.
‘I’ll be nice to you, punk.’ Gabe showed me his tobacco-
stained teeth. ‘I’ll give you ﬁve minutes to get your stuﬀ and
clear out. After that, I call the police.’
‘Gabe!’ my mother pleaded.
‘He ran away,’ Gabe told her. ‘Let him stay gone.’
I was itching to uncap Riptide but, even if I did, the blade
wouldn’t hurt humans. And Gabe, by the loosest deﬁnition,
was human.
My mother took my arm. ‘Please, Percy. Come on. We’ll go
to your room.’
I let her pull me away, my hands still trembling with rage.
My room had been completely ﬁlled with Gabe’s junk.
There were stacks of used car batteries, a rotting bouquet of
sympathy ﬂowers with a card from somebody who’d seen
his Barbara Walters interview.
‘Gabe is just upset, honey,’ my mother told me. ‘I’ll talk to
him later. I’m sure it will work out.’
‘Mom, it’ll never work out. Not as long as Gabe’s here.’
She wrung her hands nervously. ‘I can… I’ll take you to
work with me for the rest of the summer. In the autumn,
maybe there’s another boarding school –’
‘Mom.’
294
She lowered her eyes. ‘I’m trying, Percy. I just… I need
some time.’
A package appeared on my bed. At least, I could’ve sworn
it hadn’t been there a moment before.
It was a battered cardboard box about the right size to ﬁt
a basketball. The address on the mailing slip was in my own
handwriting:
The Gods
Mount Olympus
600th Floor,
Empire State Building
New York, NY
 
With best wishes,
PERCY JACKSON
 
Over the top in black marker, in a man’s clear bold print,
was the address of our apartment, and the words: RETURN
TO SENDER.
Suddenly I understood what Poseidon had told me on
Olympus.
A package. A decision.
Whatever else you do, know that you are mine. You are a
true son of the Sea God.
I looked at my mother. ‘Mom, do you want Gabe gone?’
‘Percy, it isn’t that simple. I –’
‘Mom, just tell me. That jerk has been hitting you. Do you
want him gone or not?’
She hesitated, then nodded almost imperceptibly. ‘Yes,
Percy. I do. And I’m trying to get up my courage to tell him.
But you can’t do this for me. You can’t solve my problems.’
I looked at the box.
295
I could solve her problem. I wanted to slice that package
open, plop it on the poker table, and take out what was
inside. I could start my very own statue garden, right there
in the living room.
That’s what a Greek hero would do in the stories, I
thought. That’s what Gabe deserves.
But a hero’s story always ended in tragedy. Poseidon had
told me that.
I remembered the Underworld. I thought about Gabe’s
spirit drifting forever in the Fields of Asphodel, or
condemned to some hideous torture behind the barbed wire
of the Fields of Punishment – an eternal poker game, sitting
up to his waist in boiling oil listening to opera music. Did I
have the right to send someone there? Even Gabe?
A month ago, I wouldn’t have hesitated. Now…
‘I can do it,’ I told my mom. ‘One look inside this box, and
he’ll never bother you again.’
She glanced at the package, and seemed to understand
immediately. ‘No, Percy,’ she said, stepping away. ‘You
can’t.’
‘Poseidon called you a queen,’ I told her. ‘He said he
hadn’t met a woman like you in a thousand years.’
Her cheeks ﬂushed. ‘Percy –’
‘You deserve better than this, Mom. You should go to
college, get your degree. You can write your novel, meet a
nice guy maybe, live in a nice house. You don’t need to
protect me any more by staying with Gabe. Let me get rid of
him.’
She wiped a tear oﬀ her cheek. ‘You sound so much like
your father,’ she said. ‘He oﬀered to stop the tide for me
once. He oﬀered to build me a palace at the bottom of the
sea. He thought he could solve all my problems with a wave
of his hand.’
‘What’s wrong with that?’
Her multicoloured eyes seemed to search inside me. ‘I
think you know, Percy. I think you’re enough like me to
296
understand. If my life is going to mean anything, I have to
live it myself. I can’t let a god take care of me… or my son. I
have to… ﬁnd the courage on my own. Your quest has
reminded me of that.’
We listened to the sound of poker chips, swearing and
ESPN from the living-room television.
‘I’ll leave the box,’ I said. ‘If he threatens you…’
She looked pale, but she nodded. ‘Where will you go,
Percy?’
‘Half-Blood Hill.’
‘For the summer… or forever?’
‘I guess that depends.’
We locked eyes, and I sensed that we had an agreement.
We would see how things stood at the end of the summer.
She kissed my forehead. ‘You’ll be a hero, Percy. You’ll be
the greatest of all.’
I took one last look around my bedroom. I had a feeling I’d
never see it again. Then I walked with my mother to the
front door.
‘Leaving so soon, punk?’ Gabe called after me. ‘Good
riddance.’
I had one last twinge of doubt. How could I turn down the
perfect chance to take revenge on him? I was leaving here
without saving my mother.
‘Hey, Sally,’ he yelled. ‘What about that meat loaf, huh?’
A steely look of anger ﬂared in my mother’s eyes, and I
thought, just maybe, I was leaving her in good hands after
all. Her own.
‘The meat loaf is coming right up, dear,’ she told Gabe.
‘Meat loaf surprise.’
She looked at me, and winked.
The last thing I saw as the door swung closed was my
mother staring at Gabe, as if she were contemplating how
he would look as a garden statue.
297
22    The Prophecy Comes True
 
We were the ﬁrst heroes to return alive to Half-Blood Hill
since Luke, so of course everybody treated us as if we’d won
some reality TV contest. According to camp tradition, we
wore laurel wreaths to a big feast prepared in our honour,
then led a procession down to the bonﬁre, where we got to
burn the burial shrouds our cabins had made for us in our
absence.
Annabeth’s shroud was so beautiful – grey silk with
embroidered owls – I told her it seemed a shame not to bury
her in it. She punched me and told me to shut up.
Being the son of Poseidon, I didn’t have any cabin mates,
so the Ares cabin had volunteered to make my shroud.
They’d taken an old bedsheet and painted smiley faces with
X’ed-out eyes around the border, and the word LOSER
painted really big in the middle.
It was fun to burn.
As Apollo’s cabin led the sing-along and passed out
toasted marshmallows, I was surrounded by my old Hermes
cabinmates, Annabeth’s friends from Athena and Grover’s
satyr buddies, who were admiring the brand new searcher’s
licence he’d received from the Council of Cloven Elders. The
council had called Grover’s performance on the quest ‘Brave
to the point of indigestion. Horns-and-whiskers above
anything we have seen in the past.’
The only ones not in a party mood were Clarisse and her
cabinmates, whose poisonous looks told me they’d never
forgive me for disgracing their dad.
298
That was okay with me.
Even Dionysus’s welcome-home speech wasn’t enough to
dampen my spirits. ‘Yes, yes, so the little brat didn’t get
himself killed and now hell have an even bigger head. Well,
huzzah for that. In other announcements, there will be no
canoe races this Saturday…’
I moved back into cabin three, but it didn’t feel so lonely
any more. I had my friends to train with during the day. At
night, I lay awake and listened to the sea, knowing my
father was out there. Maybe he wasn’t quite sure about me
yet, maybe he hadn’t even wanted me born, but he was
watching. And so far, he was proud of what I’d done.
As for my mother, she had a chance at a new life. Her
letter arrived a week after I got back to camp. She told me
Gabe had left mysteriously – disappeared oﬀ the face of the
planet, in fact. She’d reported him missing to the police, but
she had a funny feeling they would never ﬁnd him.
On a completely unrelated subject, she’d sold her ﬁrst life-
size concrete sculpture, entitled The Poker Player, to a
collector, through an art gallery in Soho. She’d got so much
money for it, she’d put a deposit down on a new apartment
and made a payment on her ﬁrst term’s tuition at NYU. The
Soho gallery was clamouring for more of her work, which
they called ‘a huge step forward in super-ugly neorealism’.
But don’t worry, my mom wrote. I’m done with sculpture.
I’ve disposed of that box of tools you left me. It’s time for
me to turn to writing.
At the bottom, she wrote a P.S.: Percy, I’ve found a good
private school here in the city. I’ve put a deposit down to
hold you a spot, in case you want to enrol for seventh
grade. You could live at home. But if you want to go year-
round at Half-Blood Hill, I’ll understand.
I folded the note carefully and set it on my bedside table.
Every night before I went to sleep, I read it again, and I tried
to decide how to answer her.
299
On the Fourth of July, the whole camp gathered at the beach
for a ﬁreworks display by cabin nine. Being Hephaestus’s
kids, they weren’t going to settle for a few lame red-white-
and-blue explosions. They’d anchored a barge oﬀshore and
loaded it with rockets the size of Patriot missiles. According
to Annabeth, who’d seen the show before, the blasts would
be sequenced so tightly they’d look like frames of animation
across the sky. The ﬁnale was supposed to be a couple of
thirty-metre-tall Spartan warriors who would crackle to life
above the ocean, ﬁght a battle, then explode into a million
colours.
As Annabeth and I were spreading a picnic blanket, Grover
showed up to tell us goodbye. He was dressed in his usual
jeans and T-shirt and trainers, but in the last few weeks he’d
started to look older, almost high-school age. His goatee
had got thicker. He’d put on weight. His horns had grown a
few centimetres at least, so he now had to wear his rasta
cap all the time to pass as human.
‘I’m oﬀ,’ he said. ‘I just came to say… well, you know.’
I tried to feel happy for him. After all, it wasn’t every day a
satyr got permission to go look for the great god Pan. But it
was hard saying goodbye. I’d only known Grover a year, yet
he was my oldest friend.
Annabeth gave him a hug. She told him to keep his fake
feet on.
I asked him where he was going to search ﬁrst.
‘Kind of a secret,’ he said, looking embarrassed. ‘I wish
you could come with me, guys, but humans and Pan…’
‘We understand,’ Annabeth said. ‘You got enough tin cans
for the trip?’
‘Yeah.’
‘And you remembered your reed pipes?’
‘Jeez, Annabeth,’ he grumbled. ‘You’re like an old mama
goat.’
But he didn’t really sound annoyed.
300
He gripped his walking stick and slung a backpack over
his shoulder. He looked like any hitchhiker you might see on
an American highway – nothing like the little runty boy I
used to defend from bullies at Yancy Academy.
‘Well,’ he said, ‘wish me luck.’
He gave Annabeth another hug. He clapped me on the
shoulder, then headed back through the dunes.
Fireworks exploded to life overhead: Hercules killing the
Nemean lion, Artemis chasing the boar, George Washington
(who, by the way, was a son of Athena) crossing the
Delaware.
‘Hey, Grover,’ I called.
He turned at the edge of the woods.
‘Wherever you’re going – I hope they make good
enchiladas.’
Grover grinned, and then he was gone, the trees closing
around him.
‘We’ll see him again,’ Annabeth said.
I tried to believe it. The fact that no searcher had ever
come back in two thousand years… well, I decided not to
think about that. Grover would be the ﬁrst. He had to be.
July passed.
I spent my days devising new strategies for capture-the-
ﬂag and making alliances with the other cabins to keep the
banner out of Ares’s hands. I got to the top of the climbing
wall for the ﬁrst time without getting scorched by lava.
From time to time, I’d walk past the Big House, glance up
at the attic windows and think about the Oracle. I tried to
convince myself that its prophecy had come to completion.
You shall go west, and face the god who has turned.
Been there, done that – even though the traitor god had
turned out to be Ares rather than Hades.
You shall ﬁnd what was stolen, and see it safely returned.
Check. One master bolt delivered. One helmet of darkness
back on Hades’s oily head.
301
You shall be betrayed by one who calls you a friend.
This line still bothered me. Ares had pretended to be my
friend, then betrayed me. That must be what the Oracle
meant….
And you shall fail to save what matters most, in the end.
I had failed to save my mom, but only because I’d let her
save herself, and I knew that was the right thing.
So why was I still uneasy?
The last night of the summer session came all too quickly.
The campers had one last meal together. We burned part
of our dinner for the gods. At the bonﬁre, the senior
counsellors awarded the end-of-summer beads.
I got my own leather necklace, and when I saw the bead
for my ﬁrst summer, I was glad the ﬁrelight covered my
blushing. The design was pitch black, with a sea-green
trident shimmering in the centre.
‘The choice was unanimous,’ Luke announced. ‘This bead
commemorates the ﬁrst son of the Sea God at this camp,
and the quest he undertook into the darkest part of the
Underworld to stop a war!’
The entire camp got to their feet and cheered. Even Ares’s
cabin felt obliged to stand. Athena’s cabin steered Annabeth
to the front so she could share in the applause.
I’m not sure I’d ever felt as happy or sad as I did at that
moment. I’d ﬁnally found a family, people who cared about
me and thought I’d done something right. And in the
morning, most of them would be leaving for the year.
* * *
 
The next morning, I found a form letter on my bedside table.
I knew Dionysus must’ve ﬁlled it out, because he
stubbornly insisted on getting my name wrong:
 
302
Dear Peter Johnson,
If you intend to stay at Camp Half-Blood year-
round, you must inform the Big House by noon
today. If you do not announce your intentions,
we will assume you have vacated your cabin or
died a horrible death. Cleaning harpies will begin
work at sundown. They will be authorized to eat
any unregistered campers. All personal articles
left behind will be incinerated in the lava pit.
 
 
 
Have a nice day!
Mr D (Dionysus)
Camp Director, Olympian Council no.12
 
 
That’s another thing about ADHD. Deadlines just aren’t real
to me until I’m staring one in the face. Summer was over,
and I still hadn’t answered my mother, or the camp, about
whether I’d be staying. Now I had only a few hours to
decide.
The decision should have been easy. I mean, nine months
of hero training or nine months of sitting in a classroom –
duh.
But there was my mom to consider. For the ﬁrst time, I
had the chance to live with her for a whole year, without
Gabe. I had a chance be at home and knock around the city
in my free time. I remembered what Annabeth had said so
long ago on our quest: The real world is where the monsters
are. That’s where you learn whether you’re any good or not.
I thought about the fate of Thalia, daughter of Zeus. I
wondered how many monsters would attack me if I left Half-
Blood Hill. If I stayed in one place for a whole school year,
without Chiron or my friends around to help me, would my
mother and I even survive until the next summer? That was
assuming the spelling tests and ﬁve-paragraph essays
303
didn’t kill me. I decided I’d go down to the arena and do
some sword practice. Maybe that would clear my head.
The campgrounds were mostly deserted, shimmering in
the August heat. All the campers were in their cabins
packing up, or running around with brooms and mops,
getting ready for ﬁnal inspection. Argus was helping some of
the Aphrodite kids haul their Gucci suitcases and makeup
kits over the hill where the camp’s shuttle bus would be
waiting to take them to the airport.
Don’t think about leaving yet, I told myself. Just train.
I got to the sword-ﬁghters’ arena and found that Luke had
had the same idea. His gym bag was plopped at the edge of
the stage. He was working solo, whacking away at battle
dummies with a sword I’d never seen before. It must’ve
been a regular steel blade, because he was slashing the
dummies’ heads right oﬀ, stabbing through their straw-
stuﬀed guts. His orange counsellor’s shirt was dripping with
sweat. His expression was so intense, his life might’ve really
been in danger. I watched, fascinated, as he disembowelled
the whole row of dummies, hacking oﬀ limbs and basically
reducing them to a pile of straw and armour.
They were only dummies, but I still couldn’t help being
awed by Luke’s skill. The guy was an incredible ﬁghter. It
made me wonder, again, how he possibly could’ve failed at
his quest.
Finally, he saw me, and stopped mid-swing. ‘Percy.’
‘Um, sorry,’ I said, embarrassed. ‘I just –’
‘It’s okay,’ he said, lowering his sword. ‘Just doing some
last-minute practice.’
‘Those dummies won’t be bothering anybody any more.’
Luke shrugged. ‘We build new ones every summer.’
Now that his sword wasn’t swirling around, I could see
something odd about it. The blade was two diﬀerent types
of metal – one edge bronze, the other steel.
Luke noticed me looking at it. ‘Oh, this? New toy. This is
Backbiter.’
304
‘Backbiter?’
Luke turned the blade in the light so it glinted wickedly.
‘One side is celestial bronze. The other is tempered steel.
Works on mortals and immortals both.’
I thought about what Chiron had told me when I started
my quest – that a hero should never harm mortals unless
absolutely necessary.
‘I didn’t know they could make weapons like that.’
‘They probably can’t,’ Luke agreed. ‘It’s one of a kind.’
He gave me a tiny smile, then slid the sword into its
scabbard. ‘Listen, I was going to come looking for you. What
do you say we go down to the woods one last time, look for
something to ﬁght?’
I don’t know why I hesitated. I should’ve felt relieved that
Luke was being so friendly. Ever since I’d got back from the
quest, he’d been acting a little distant. I was afraid he might
resent me for all the attention I’d had.
‘You think it’s a good idea?’ I asked. ‘I mean –’
‘Aw, come on.’ He rummaged in his gym bag and pulled
out a six-pack of Cokes. ‘Drinks are on me.’
I stared at the Cokes, wondering where the heck he’d got
them. There were no regular mortal sodas at the camp
store. No way to smuggle them in, unless you talked to a
satyr maybe.
Of course, the magic dinner goblets would ﬁll with
anything you want, but it just didn’t taste the same as a real
Coke, straight out of the can.
Sugar and caﬀeine. My willpower crumbled.
‘Sure,’ I decided. ‘Why not?’
We walked down to the woods and kicked around for some
kind of monster to ﬁght, but it was too hot. All the monsters
with any sense must’ve been taking siestas in their nice
cool caves.
We found a shady spot by the creek where I’d broken
Clarisse’s spear during my ﬁrst capture the ﬂag game. We
305
sat on a big rock, drank our Cokes and watched the sunlight
in the woods.
After a while Luke said, ‘You miss being on a quest?’
‘With monsters attacking me every metre? Are you
kidding?’
Luke raised an eyebrow.
‘Yeah. I miss it,’ I admitted. ‘You?’
A shadow passed over his face.
I was used to hearing from the girls how good-looking
Luke was, but at the moment, he looked weary, and angry,
and not at all handsome. His blond hair was grey in the
sunlight. The scar on his face looked deeper than usual. I
could imagine him as an old man.
‘I’ve lived at Half-Blood Hill year-round since I was
fourteen,’ he told me. ‘Ever since Thalia… well, you know. I
trained, and trained, and trained. I never got to be a normal
teenager, out there in the real world. Then they threw me
one quest, and when I came back, it was like, ‘Okay, ride’s
over. Have a nice life.”
He crumpled his Coke can and threw it into the creek,
which really shocked me. One of the ﬁrst things you learn at
Camp Half-Blood is: don’t litter. You’ll hear from the nymphs
and the naiads. They’ll get even. You’ll crawl into bed one
night and ﬁnd your sheets ﬁlled with centipedes and mud.
‘The heck with laurel wreaths,’ Luke said. ‘I’m not going to
end up like those dusty trophies in the Big House attic.’
‘You make it sound like you’re leaving.’
Luke gave me a twisted smile. ‘Oh, I’m leaving, all right,
Percy. I brought you down here to say goodbye.’
He snapped his ﬁngers. A small ﬁre burned a hole in the
ground at my feet. Out crawled something glistening black,
about the size of my hand. A scorpion.
I started to go for my pen.
‘I wouldn’t,’ Luke cautioned. ‘Pit scorpions can jump up to
ﬁve metres. Its stinger can pierce right through your
clothes. You’ll be dead in sixty seconds.’
306
‘Luke, what –’
Then it hit me.
You will be betrayed by one who calls you a friend.
‘You,’ I said.
He stood calmly and brushed oﬀ his jeans.
The scorpion paid him no attention. It kept its beady black
eyes on me, clamping its pincers as it crawled onto my
shoe.
‘I saw a lot out there in the world, Percy,’ Luke said.
‘Didn’t you feel it – the darkness gathering, the monsters
growing stronger? Didn’t you realize how useless it all is? All
the heroics – being pawns of the gods. They should’ve been
overthrown thousands of years ago, but they’ve hung on,
thanks to us half-bloods.’
I couldn’t believe this was happening.
‘Luke… you’re talking about our parents,’ I said.
He laughed. ‘That’s supposed to make me love them?
Their precious “Western civilization” is a disease, Percy. It’s
killing the world. The only way to stop it is to burn it to the
ground, start over with something more honest.’
‘You’re as crazy as Ares.’
His eyes ﬂared. ‘Ares is a fool. He never realized the true
master he was serving. If I had time, Percy, I could explain.
But I’m afraid you won’t live that long.’
The scorpion crawled onto my trouser leg.
There had to be a way out of this. I needed time to think.
‘Kronos,’ I said. ‘That’s who you serve.’
The air got colder.
‘You should be careful with names,’ Luke warned.
‘Kronos got you to steal the master bolt and the helmet.
He spoke to you in your dreams.’
Luke’s eye twitched. ‘He spoke to you, too, Percy. You
should’ve listened.’
‘He’s brainwashing you, Luke.’
‘You’re wrong. He showed me that my talents are being
wasted. You know what my quest was two years ago, Percy?
307
My father, Hermes, wanted me to steal a golden apple from
the Garden of the Hesperides and return it to Olympus. After
all the training I’d done, that was the best he could think
up.’
‘That’s not an easy quest,’ I said. ‘Hercules did it.’
‘Exactly,’ Luke said. ‘Where’s the glory in repeating what
others have done? All the gods know how to do is replay
their past. My heart wasn’t in it. The dragon in the garden
gave me this –’ he pointed angrily at his scar – ‘and when I
came back, all I got was pity. I wanted to pull Olympus down
stone by stone right then, but I bided my time. I began to
dream of Kronos. He convinced me to steal something
worthwhile, something no hero had ever had the courage to
take. When we went on that winter-solstice ﬁeld trip, while
the other campers were asleep, I sneaked into the throne
room and took Zeus’s master bolt right from his chair.
Hades’s helmet of darkness, too. You wouldn’t believe how
easy it was. The Olympians are so arrogant; they never
dreamed someone would dare steal from them. Their
security is horrible. I was halfway across New Jersey before I
heard the storms rumbling, and I knew they’d discovered
my theft.’
The scorpion was sitting on my knee now, staring at me
with its glittering eyes. I tried to keep my voice level. ‘So
why didn’t you bring the items to Kronos?’
Luke’s smile wavered. ‘I… I got overconﬁdent. Zeus sent
out his sons and daughters to ﬁnd the stolen bolt – Artemis,
Apollo, my father, Hermes. But it was Ares who caught me. I
could have beaten him, but I wasn’t careful enough. He
disarmed me took the items of power, threatened to return
them to Olympus and burn me alive. Then Kronos’s voice
came to me and told me what to say. I put the idea in Ares’s
head about a great war between the gods. I said all he had
to do was hide the items away for a while and watch the
others ﬁght. Ares got a wicked gleam in his eyes. I knew he
was hooked. He let me go, and I returned to Olympus before
308
anyone noticed my absence.’ Luke drew his new sword. He
ran his thumb down the ﬂat of the blade, as if he were
hypnotized by its beauty. ‘Afterwards, the Lord of the
Titans… h-he punished me with nightmares. I swore not to
fail again. Back at Camp Half-Blood, in my dreams, I was
told that a second hero would arrive, one who could be
tricked into taking the bolt and the helmet the rest of the
way – from Ares down to Tartarus.’
‘You summoned the hellhound, that night in the forest.’
‘We had to make Chiron think the camp wasn’t safe for
you, so he would start you on your quest. We had to conﬁrm
his fears that Hades was after you. And it worked.’
‘The ﬂying shoes were cursed,’ I said. ‘They were
supposed to drag me and the backpack into Tartarus.’
‘And they would have, if you’d been wearing them. But
you gave them to the satyr, which wasn’t part of the plan.
Grover messes up everything he touches. He even confused
the curse.’
Luke looked down at the scorpion, which was now sitting
on my thigh. ‘You should have died in Tartarus, Percy. But
don’t worry, I’ll leave you with my little friend to set things
right.’
‘Thalia gave her life to save you,’ I said, gritting my teeth.
‘And this is how you repay her?’
‘Don’t speak of Thalia!’ he shouted. ‘The gods let her die!
That’s one of the many things they will pay for.’
‘You’re being used, Luke. You and Ares both. Don’t listen
to Kronos.’
‘I’ve been used?’ Luke’s voice turned shrill. ‘Look at
yourself. What has your dad ever done for you? Kronos will
rise. You’ve only delayed his plans. He will cast the
Olympians into Tartarus and drive humanity back to their
caves. All except the strongest – the ones who serve him.’
‘Call oﬀ the bug,’ I said. ‘If you’re so strong, ﬁght me
yourself.’
309
Luke smiled. ‘Nice try, Percy. But I’m not Ares. You can’t
bait me. My lord is waiting, and he’s got plenty of quests for
me to undertake.’
‘Luke –’
‘Goodbye, Percy. There is a new Golden Age coming. You
won’t be part of it.’
He slashed his sword in an arc and disappeared in a ripple
of darkness.
The scorpion lunged.
I swatted it away with my hand and uncapped my sword.
The thing jumped at me and I cut it in half in midair.
I was about to congratulate myself until I looked down at
my hand. My palm had a huge red welt, oozing and smoking
with yellow guck. The thing had got me after all.
My ears pounded. My vision went foggy. The water, I
thought. It had healed me before.
I stumbled to the creek and submerged my hand, but
nothing seemed to happen. The poison was too strong. My
vision was getting dark. I could barely stand up.
Sixty seconds, Luke had told me.
I had to get back to camp. If I collapsed out here, my body
would be dinner for a monster. Nobody would ever know
what had happened.
My legs felt like lead. My forehead was burning. I stumbled
towards the camp, and the nymphs stirred from their trees.
‘Help,’ I croaked. ‘Please…’
Two of them took my arms, pulling me along. I remember
making it to the clearing, a counsellor shouting for help, a
centaur blowing a conch horn.
Then everything went black.
* * *
 
I woke with a drinking straw in my mouth. I was sipping
something that tasted like liquid chocolate-chip cookies.
310
Nectar.
I opened my eyes.
I was propped up in bed in the sickroom of the Big House,
my right hand bandaged like a club. Argus stood guard in
the corner. Annabeth sat next to me, holding my nectar
glass and dabbing a washcloth on my forehead.
‘Here we are again,’ I said.
‘You idiot,’ Annabeth said, which is how I knew she was
overjoyed to see me conscious. ‘You were green and turning
grey when we found you. If it weren’t for Chiron’s healing…’
‘Now, now,’ Chiron’s voice said. ‘Percy’s constitution
deserves some of the credit.’
He was sitting near the foot of my bed in human form,
which was why I hadn’t noticed him yet. His lower half was
magically compacted into the wheelchair, his upper half
dressed in a coat and tie. He smiled, but his face looked
weary and pale, the way it did when he’d been up all night
grading Latin papers.
‘How are you feeling?’ he asked.
‘Like my insides have been frozen, then microwaved.’
‘Apt, considering that was pit scorpion venom. Now you
must tell me, if you can, exactly what happened.’
Between sips of nectar, I told them the story.
The room was quiet for a long time.
‘I can’t believe that Luke…’ Annabeth’s voice faltered. Her
expression turned angry and sad. ‘Yes. Yes, I can believe it.
May the gods curse him… He was never the same after his
quest.’
‘This must be reported to Olympus,’ Chiron murmured. ‘I
will go at once.’
‘Luke is out there right now,’ I said. ‘I have to go after
him.’
Chiron shook his head. ‘No, Percy. The gods –’
‘Won’t even talk about Kronos,’ I snapped. ‘Zeus declared
the matter closed!’
311
‘Percy, I know this is hard. But you must not rush out for
vengeance. You aren’t ready.’
I didn’t like it, but part of me suspected Chiron was right.
One look at my hand, and I knew I wasn’t going to be sword
ﬁghting any time soon. ‘Chiron… your prophecy from the
Oracle… it was about Kronos, wasn’t it? Was I in it? And
Annabeth?’
Chiron glanced nervously at the ceiling. ‘Percy, it isn’t my
place –’
‘You’ve been ordered not to talk to me about it, haven’t
you?’
His eyes were sympathetic, but sad. ‘You will be a great
hero, child. I will do my best to prepare you. But if I’m right
about the path ahead of you…’
Thunder boomed overhead, rattling the windows.
‘All right!’ Chiron shouted. ‘Fine!’
He sighed in frustration. ‘The gods have their reasons,
Percy. Knowing too much of your future is never a good
thing.’
‘We can’t just sit back and do nothing,’ I said.
‘We will not sit back,’ Chiron promised. ‘But you must be
careful. Kronos wants you to come unravelled. He wants
your life disrupted, your thoughts clouded with fear and
anger. Do not give him what he wants. Train patiently. Your
time will come.’
‘Assuming I live that long.’
Chiron put his hand on my ankle. ‘You’ll have to trust me,
Percy. You will live. But ﬁrst you must decide your path for
the coming year. I cannot tell you the right choice…’ I got
the feeling that he had a very deﬁnite opinion, and it was
taking all his willpower not to advise me. ‘… But you must
decide whether to stay at Camp Half-Blood year-round, or
return to the mortal world for seventh grade and be a
summer camper. Think on that. When I get back from
Olympus, you must tell me your decision.’
312
I wanted to protest. I wanted to ask him more questions.
But his expression told me there could be no more
discussion; he had said as much as he could.
‘I’ll be back as soon as I can,’ Chiron promised. ‘Argus will
watch over you.’
He glanced at Annabeth. ‘Oh, and, my dear… whenever
you’re ready, they’re here.’
‘Who’s here?’ I asked.
Nobody answered.
Chiron rolled himself out of the room. I heard the wheels
of his chair clunk carefully down the front steps, two at a
time.
Annabeth studied the ice in my drink.
‘What’s wrong?’ I asked her.
‘Nothing.’ She set the glass on the table. ‘I… just took
your advice about something. You… um… need anything?’
‘Yeah. Help me up. I want to go outside.’
‘Percy, that isn’t a good idea.’
I slid my legs out of bed. Annabeth caught me before I
could crumple to the ﬂoor. A wave of nausea rolled over me.
Annabeth said, ‘I told you…’
‘I’m ﬁne,’ I insisted. I didn’t want to lie in bed like an
invalid while Luke was out there planning to destroy the
Western world.
I managed a step forward. Then another, still leaning
heavily on Annabeth. Argus followed us outside, but he kept
his distance.
By the time we reached the porch, my face was beaded
with sweat. My stomach had twisted into knots. But I had
managed to make it all the way to the railing.
It was dusk. The camp looked completely deserted. The
cabins were dark and the volleyball pit silent. No canoes cut
the surface of the lake. Beyond the woods and the
strawberry ﬁelds, the Long Island Sound glittered in the last
light of the sun.
‘What are you going to do?’ Annabeth asked me.
313
‘I don’t know.’
I told her I got the feeling Chiron wanted me to stay year-
round, to put in more individual training time, but I wasn’t
sure that’s what I wanted. I admitted I’d feel bad about
leaving her alone, though, with only Clarisse for company…
Annabeth pursed her lips, then said quietly, ‘I’m going
home for the year, Percy.’
I stared at her. ‘You mean, to your dad’s?’
She pointed towards the crest of Half-Blood Hill. Next to
Thalia’s pine tree, at the very edge of the camp’s magical
boundaries, a family stood silhouetted – two little children, a
woman and a tall man with blond hair. They seemed to be
waiting. The man was holding a backpack that looked like
the one Annabeth had got from Waterland in Denver.
‘I wrote him a letter when we got back,’ Annabeth said.
‘Just like you suggested. I told him… I was sorry. I’d come
home for the school year if he still wanted me. He wrote
back immediately. We decided… we’d give it another try.’
‘That took guts.’
She pursed her lips. ‘You won’t try anything stupid during
the school year, will you? At least… not without sending me
an iris-message?’
I managed a smile. ‘I won’t go looking for trouble. I usually
don’t have to.’
‘When I get back next summer,’ she said, ‘we’ll hunt down
Luke. We’ll ask for a quest, but if we don’t get approval,
we’ll sneak oﬀ and do it anyway. Agreed?’
‘Sounds like a plan worthy of Athena.’
She held out her hand. I shook it.
‘Take care, Seaweed Brain,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Keep your
eyes open.’
‘You too, Wise Girl.’
I watched her walk up the hill and join her family. She
gave her father an awkward hug and looked back at the
valley one last time. She touched Thalia’s pine tree, then
314
allowed herself to be led over the crest and into the mortal
world.
For the ﬁrst time at camp, I felt truly alone. I looked out at
Long Island Sound and I remembered my father saying, The
sea does not like to be restrained.
I made my decision.
I wondered, if Poseidon were watching, would he approve
of my choice?
‘I’ll be back next summer,’ I promised him. ‘I’ll survive
until then. After all, I am your son.’ I asked Argus to take me
down to cabin three, so I could pack my bags for home.
315
Acknowledgements
 
Without the assistance of numerous valiant helpers, I would
have been slain by monsters many times over as I
endeavoured to bring this story to print. Thanks to my elder
son, Haley Michael, who heard the story ﬁrst; my younger
son, Patrick John, who at the age of six is the levelheaded
one in the family; and my wife, Becky, who puts up with my
many long hours at Camp Half-Blood. Thanks also to my
cadre of middle-school beta-testers: Travis Stoll, clever and
quick as Hermes; C. C. Kellogg, beloved as Athena; Allison
Bauer, clear-eyed as Artemis the Huntress; and Mrs
Margaret Floyd, the wise and kindly seer of middle-school
English. My appreciation also to Professor Egbert J. Bakker,
classicist extraordinaire; Nancy Gallt, agent summa cum
laude; Jonathan Burnham, Jennifer Besser, and Sarah
Hughes for believing in Percy.
316
317
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
318
Contents
 
1 • My Best Friend Shops for a Wedding Dress
 
2 • I Play Dodgeball with Cannibals
 
3 • We Hail the Taxi of Eternal Torment
 
4 • Tyson Plays with Fire
 
5 • I Get a New Cabin Mate
 
6 • Demon Pigeons Attack
 
7 • I Accept Gifts from a Stranger
 
8 • We Board the Princess Andromeda
 
9 • I Have the Worst Family Reunion Ever
 
10 • We Hitch a Ride with Dead Confederates
 
11 • Clarisse Blows Up Everything
 
12 • We Check In to C.C.’s Spa & Resort
 
13 • Annabeth Tries to Swim Home
 
14 • We Meet the Sheep of Doom
 
15 • Nobody Gets the Fleece
 
16 • I Go Down with the Ship
 
17 • We Get a Surprise on Miami Beach
 
18 • The Party Ponies Invade
319
 
19 • The Chariot Race Ends with a Bang
 
20 • The Fleece Works Its Magic Too Well
 
320
To Patrick John Riordan, the best storyteller in the family
321
1    My Best Friend Shops for a Wedding
Dress
 
My nightmare started like this.
I was standing on a deserted street in some little beach
town. It was the middle of the night. A storm was blowing.
Wind and rain ripped at the palm trees along the sidewalk.
Pink and yellow stucco buildings lined the street, their
windows boarded up. A block away, past a line of hibiscus
bushes, the ocean churned.
Florida, I thought. Though I wasn’t sure how I knew that.
I’d never been to Florida.
Then I heard hooves clattering against the pavement. I
turned and saw my friend Grover running for his life.
Yeah, I said hooves.
Grover is a satyr. From the waist up, he looks like a typical
gangly teenager with a peach-fuzz goatee and a bad case of
acne. He walks with a strange limp, but unless you happen
to catch him without his trousers on (which I don’t
recommend), you’d never know there was anything un-
human about him. Baggy jeans and fake feet hide the fact
that he’s got furry hindquarters and hooves.
Grover had been my best friend in sixth grade. He’d gone
on this adventure with me and a girl named Annabeth to
save the world, but I hadn’t seen him since last July, when
he set oﬀ alone on a dangerous quest – a quest no satyr had
ever returned from.
Anyway, in my dream, Grover was hauling goat tail,
holding his human shoes in his hands the way he does when
he needs to move fast. He clopped past the little tourist
322
shops and surfboard rental places. The wind bent the palm
trees almost to the ground.
Grover was terriﬁed of something behind him. He must’ve
just come from the beach. Wet sand was caked in his fur.
He’d escaped from somewhere. He was trying to get away
from … something.
A bone-rattling growl cut through the storm. Behind
Grover, at the far end of the block, a shadowy ﬁgure
loomed. It swatted aside a street lamp, which burst in a
shower of sparks.
Grover stumbled, whimpering in fear. He muttered to
himself, Have to get away. Have to warn them!
I couldn’t see what was chasing him, but I could hear it
muttering and cursing. The ground shook as it got closer.
Grover dashed around a street corner and faltered. He’d run
into a dead-end courtyard full of shops. No time to back up.
The nearest door had been blown open by the storm. The
sign above the darkened display window read: , ST
AUGUSTINE BRIDAL BOUTIQUE.
Grover dashed inside. He dived behind a rack of wedding
dresses.
The monster’s shadow passed in front of the shop. I could
smell the thing – a sickening combination of wet sheep wool
and rotten meat and that weird sour body odour only
monsters have, like a skunk that’s been living oﬀ Mexican
food.
Grover trembled behind the wedding dresses. The
monster’s shadow passed on.
Silence except for the rain. Grover took a deep breath.
Maybe the thing was gone.
Then lightning ﬂashed. The entire front of the store
exploded, and a monstrous voice bellowed, ‘MIIIIINE!’
I sat bolt upright, shivering in my bed.
There was no storm. No monster.
Morning sunlight ﬁltered through my bedroom window.
323
I thought I saw a shadow ﬂicker across the glass – a
humanlike shape. But then there was a knock on my
bedroom door – my mom called, ‘Percy, you’re going to be
late’ – and the shadow at the window disappeared.
It must’ve been my imagination. A ﬁfth-storey window
with a rickety old ﬁre escape … there couldn’t have been
anyone out there.
‘Come on, dear,’ my mother called again. ‘Last day of
school. You should be excited! You’ve almost made it!’
‘Coming,’ I managed.
I felt under my pillow. My ﬁngers closed reassuringly
around the ballpoint pen I always slept with. I brought it out,
studied the Ancient Greek writing engraved on the side:
Anaklusmos. Riptide.
I thought about uncapping it, but something held me
back. I hadn’t used Riptide for so long …
Besides, my mom had made me promise not to use
deadly weapons in the apartment after I’d swung a javelin
the wrong way and taken out her china cabinet. I put
Anaklusmos on my nightstand and dragged myself out of
bed.
I got dressed as quickly as I could. I tried not to think
about my nightmare or monsters or the shadow at my
window.
Have to get away. Have to warn them!
What had Grover meant?
I made a three-ﬁngered claw over my heart and pushed
outwards – an ancient gesture Grover had once taught me
for warding oﬀ evil.
The dream couldn’t have been real.
Last day of school. My mom was right, I should have been
excited. For the ﬁrst time in my life, I’d almost made it an
entire year without getting expelled. No weird accidents. No
ﬁghts in the classroom. No teachers turning into monsters
and trying to kill me with poisoned cafeteria food or
324
exploding homework. Tomorrow, I’d be on my way to my
favourite place in the world – Camp Half-Blood.
Only one more day to go. Surely even I couldn’t mess that
up.
As usual, I didn’t have a clue how wrong I was.
My mom made blue waﬄes and blue eggs for breakfast.
She’s funny that way, celebrating special occasions with
blue food. I think it’s her way of saying anything is possible.
Percy can pass seventh grade. Waﬄes can be blue. Little
miracles like that.
I ate at the kitchen table while my mom washed dishes.
She was dressed in her work uniform – a starry blue skirt
and a red-and-white striped blouse she wore to sell candy at
Sweet on America. Her long brown hair was pulled back in a
ponytail.
The waﬄes tasted great, but I guess I wasn’t digging in
like I usually did. My mom looked over and frowned. ‘Percy,
are you all right?’
‘Yeah … ﬁne.’
But she could always tell when something was bothering
me. She dried her hands and sat down across from me.
‘School, or…’
She didn’t need to ﬁnish. I knew what she was asking.
‘I think Grover’s in trouble,’ I said, and I told her about my
dream.
She pursed her lips. We didn’t talk much about the other
part of my life. We tried to live as normally as possible, but
my mom knew all about Grover.
‘I wouldn’t be too worried, dear,’ she said. ‘Grover is a big
satyr now. If there were a problem, I’m sure we would’ve
heard from … from camp…’ Her shoulders tensed as she
said the word camp.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
‘Nothing,’ she said. ‘I’ll tell you what. This afternoon we’ll
celebrate the end of school. I’ll take you and Tyson to
325
Rockefeller Center – to that skateboard shop you like.’
Oh, man, that was tempting. We were always struggling
with money. Between my mom’s night classes and my
private school tuition, we could never aﬀord to do special
stuﬀ like shop for a skateboard. But something in her voice
bothered me.
‘Wait a minute,’ I said. ‘I thought we were packing me up
for camp tonight.’
She twisted her dishcloth. ‘Ah, dear, about that … I got a
message from Chiron last night.’
My heart sank. Chiron was the activities director at Camp
Half-Blood. He wouldn’t contact us unless something serious
was going on. ‘What did he say?’
‘He thinks … it might not be safe for you to come to camp
just yet. We might have to postpone.’
‘Postpone? Mom, how could it not be safe? I’m a half-
blood! It’s like the only safe place on earth for me!’
‘Usually, dear. But with the problems they’re having –’
‘What problems?’
‘Percy … I’m very, very sorry. I was hoping to talk to you
about it this afternoon. I can’t explain it all now. I’m not
even sure Chiron can. Everything happened so suddenly.’
My mind was reeling. How could I not go to camp? I
wanted to ask a million questions, but just then the kitchen
clock chimed the half-hour.
My mom looked almost relieved. ‘Seven thirty, dear. You
should go. Tyson will be waiting.’
‘But –’
‘Percy, we’ll talk this afternoon. Go on to school.’
That was the last thing I wanted to do, but my mom had
this fragile look in her eyes – a kind of warning, like if I
pushed her too hard she’d start to cry. Besides, she was
right about my friend Tyson. I had to meet him at the
subway station on time or he’d get upset. He was scared of
travelling underground alone.
326
I gathered up my stuﬀ, but I stopped in the doorway.
‘Mom, this problem at camp. Does it … could it have
anything to do with my dream about Grover?’
She wouldn’t meet my eyes. ‘We’ll talk this afternoon,
dear. I’ll explain … as much as I can.’
Reluctantly, I told her goodbye. I jogged downstairs to
catch the Number Two train.
I didn’t know it at the time, but my mom and I would
never get to have our afternoon talk.
In fact, I wouldn’t be seeing home for a long, long time.
As I stepped outside, I glanced at the brownstone building
across the street. Just for a second I saw a dark shape in the
morning sunlight – a human silhouette against the brick
wall, a shadow that belonged to no one.
Then it rippled and vanished.
327
2    I Play Dodgeball with Cannibals
 
My day started normal. Or as normal as it ever gets at
Meriwether College Prep.
See, it’s this ‘progressive’ school in downtown Manhattan,
which means we sit on beanbag chairs instead of at desks,
and we don’t get grades and the teachers wear jeans and
rock concert T-shirts to work.
That’s all cool with me. I mean, I’m ADHD and dyslexic,
like most half-bloods, so I’d never done that great in regular
schools even before they kicked me out. The only bad thing
about Meriwether was that the teachers always looked on
the bright side of things, and the kids weren’t always …
well, bright.
Take my ﬁrst class today: English. The whole middle
school had read this book called Lord of the Flies, where all
these kids get marooned on an island and go psycho. So for
our ﬁnal exam, our teachers sent us into the yard to spend
an hour with no adult supervision to see what would
happen. What happened was a massive wedgie contest
between the seventh and eighth graders, two pebble ﬁghts
and a full-tackle basketball game. The school bully, Matt
Sloan, led most of those activities.
Sloan wasn’t big or strong, but he acted like he was. He
had eyes like a pit bull, and shaggy black hair, and he
always dressed in expensive but sloppy clothes, like he
wanted everybody to see how little he cared about his
family’s money. One of his front teeth was chipped from the
time he’d taken his daddy’s Porsche for a joyride and run
into a PLEASE SLOW DOWN FOR CHILDREN sign.
328
Anyway, Sloan was giving everybody wedgies until he
made the mistake of trying it on my friend Tyson.
Tyson was the only homeless kid at Meriwether College
Prep. As near as my mom and I could ﬁgure, he’d been
abandoned by his parents when he was very young,
probably because he was so … diﬀerent. He was two metres
tall and built like the Abominable Snowman, but he cried a
lot and was scared of just about everything, including his
own reﬂection. His face was kind of misshapen and brutal-
looking. I couldn’t tell you what colour his eyes were,
because I could never make myself look higher than his
crooked teeth. His voice was deep, but he talked funny, like
a much younger kid – I guess because he’d never gone to
school before coming to Meriwether. He wore tattered jeans,
grimy size-twenty sneakers and a plaid ﬂannel shirt with
holes in it. He smelled like a New York City alleyway,
because that’s where he lived, in a cardboard refrigerator
box oﬀ 72nd Street.
Meriwether Prep had adopted him as a community service
project so all the students could feel good about
themselves. Unfortunately, most of them couldn’t stand
Tyson. Once they discovered he was a big softie, despite his
massive 
strength 
and 
his 
scary 
looks, 
they 
made
themselves feel good by picking on him. I was pretty much
his only friend, which meant he was my only friend.
My mom had complained to the school a million times that
they weren’t doing enough to help him. She’d called social
services, but nothing ever seemed to happen. The social
workers claimed Tyson didn’t exist. They swore up and down
that they’d visited the alley we described and couldn’t ﬁnd
him, though how you miss a giant kid living in a refrigerator
box, I don’t know.
Anyway, Matt Sloan snuck up behind him and tried to give
him a wedgie, and Tyson panicked. He swatted Sloan away a
little too hard. Sloan ﬂew ﬁve metres and got tangled in the
little kids’ tyre swing.
329
‘You freak!’ Sloan yelled. ‘Why don’t you go back to your
cardboard box!’
Tyson started sobbing. He sat down on the jungle gym so
hard he bent the bar, and buried his head in his hands.
‘Take it back, Sloan!’ I shouted.
Sloan just sneered at me. ‘Why do you even bother,
Jackson? You might have friends if you weren’t always
sticking up for that freak.’
I balled my ﬁsts. I hoped my face wasn’t as red as it felt.
‘He’s not a freak. He’s just…’
I tried to think of the right thing to say, but Sloan wasn’t
listening. He and his big ugly friends were too busy
laughing. I wondered if it were my imagination, or if Sloan
had more goons hanging around him than usual. I was used
to seeing him with two or three, but today he had like, half a
dozen more, and I was pretty sure I’d never seen them
before.
‘Just wait till PE, Jackson,’ Sloan called. ‘You are so dead.’
When ﬁrst period ended, our English teacher Mr de Milo
came outside to inspect the carnage. He pronounced that
we’d understood Lord of the Flies perfectly. We all passed
his course, and we should never, never grow up to be
violent people. Matt Sloan nodded earnestly, then gave me
a chip-toothed grin.
I had to promise to buy Tyson an extra peanut butter
sandwich at lunch to get him to stop sobbing.
‘I … I am a freak?’ he asked me.
‘No,’ I promised, gritting my teeth. ‘Matt Sloan is the
freak.’
Tyson sniﬄed. ‘You are a good friend. Miss you next year if
… if I can’t…’
His voice trembled. I realized he didn’t know if he’d be
invited back next year for the community service project. I
wondered if the headmaster had even bothered talking to
him about it.
330
‘Don’t worry, big guy,’ I managed. ‘Everything’s going to
be ﬁne.’
Tyson gave me such a grateful look I felt like a big liar.
How could I promise a kid like him that anything would be
ﬁne?
Our next exam was science. Mrs Tesla told us that we had to
mix chemicals until we succeeded in making something
explode. Tyson was my lab partner. His hands were way too
big for the tiny vials we were supposed to use. He
accidentally knocked a tray of chemicals oﬀ the counter and
made an orange mushroom cloud in the trashcan.
After Mrs Tesla evacuated the lab and called the
hazardous waste removal squad, she praised Tyson and me
for being natural chemists. We were the ﬁrst ones who’d
ever aced her exam in under thirty seconds.
I was glad the morning went fast, because it kept me from
thinking too much about my problems. I couldn’t stand the
idea that something might be wrong at camp. Even worse, I
couldn’t shake the memory of my bad dream. I had a
terrible feeling that Grover was in danger.
In social studies, while we were drawing latitude/longitude
maps, I opened my notebook and stared at the photo inside
– my friend Annabeth on vacation in Washington, DC. She
was wearing jeans and a denim jacket over her orange
Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. Her blonde hair was pulled back in
a bandanna. She was standing in front of the Lincoln
Memorial with her arms crossed, looking extremely pleased
with herself, like she’d personally designed the place. See,
Annabeth wants to be an architect when she grows up, so
she’s always visiting famous monuments and stuﬀ. She’s
weird that way. She’d e-mailed me the picture after spring
break, and every once in a while I’d look at it just to remind
myself she was real and Camp Half-Blood hadn’t just been
my imagination.
331
I wished Annabeth were here. She’d know what to make of
my dream. I’d never admit it to her, but she was smarter
than me, even if she was annoying sometimes.
I was about to close my notebook when Matt Sloan
reached over and ripped the photo out of the rings.
‘Hey!’ I protested.
Sloan checked out the picture and his eyes got wide. ‘No
way, Jackson. Who is that? She is not your –’
‘Give it back!’ My ears felt hot.
Sloan handed the photo to his ugly buddies, who
snickered and started ripping it up to make spit wads. They
were new kids who must’ve been visiting, because they
were all wearing those stupid HI! MY NAME IS: tags from the
admissions oﬃce. They must’ve had a weird sense of
humour, too, because they’d all ﬁlled in strange names like:
MARROW SUCKER, SKULL EATER and JOE BOB. No human
beings had names like that.
‘These guys are moving here next year,’ Sloan bragged,
like that was supposed to scare me. ‘I bet they can pay the
tuition, too, unlike your retard friend.’
‘He’s not retarded.’ I had to try really, really hard not to
punch Sloan in the face.
‘You’re such a loser, Jackson. Good thing I’m gonna put
you out of your misery next period.’
His huge buddies chewed up my photo. I wanted to
pulverize them, but I was under strict orders from Chiron
never to take my anger out on regular mortals, no matter
how obnoxious they were. I had to save my ﬁghting for
monsters.
Still, part of me thought, if Sloan only knew who I really
was…
The bell rang.
As Tyson and I were leaving class, a girl’s voice whispered,
‘Percy!’
I looked around the locker area, but nobody was paying
me any attention. Like any girl at Meriwether would ever be
332
caught dead calling my name.
Before I had time to consider whether or not I’d been
imagining things, a crowd of kids rushed for the gym,
carrying Tyson and me along with them. It was time for PE.
Our coach had promised us a free-for-all dodgeball game,
and Matt Sloan had promised to kill me.
* * *
 
The gym uniform at Meriwether is sky-blue shorts and tie-
dyed T-shirts. Fortunately, we did most of our athletic stuﬀ
inside, so we didn’t have to jog through Tribeca looking like
a bunch of boot-camp hippie children.
I changed as quickly as I could in the locker room because
I didn’t want to deal with Sloan. I was about to leave when
Tyson called, ‘Percy?’
He hadn’t changed yet. He was standing by the weight-
room door, clutching his gym clothes. ‘Will you … uh…’
‘Oh. Yeah.’ I tried not to sound aggravated about it. ‘Yeah,
sure, man.’
Tyson ducked inside the weight room. I stood guard
outside the door while he changed. I felt kind of awkward
doing this, but he asked me to most days. I think it’s
because he’s completely hairy and he’s got weird scars on
his back that I’ve never had the courage to ask him about.
Anyway, I’d learned the hard way that if people teased
Tyson while he was dressing, he’d get upset and start
ripping the doors oﬀ lockers.
When we got into the gym, Coach Nunley was sitting at
his little desk reading Sports Illustrated. Nunley was about a
million years old, with bifocals and no teeth and a greasy
wave of grey hair. He reminded me of the Oracle at Camp
Half-Blood – which was a shrivelled-up mummy – except
Coach Nunley moved a lot less and he never billowed green
smoke. Well, at least not that I’d observed.
333
Matt Sloan said, ‘Coach, can I be captain?’
‘Eh?’ Coach Nunley looked up from his magazine. ‘Yeah,’
he mumbled. ‘Mm-hmm.’
Sloan grinned and took charge of the picking. He made
me the other team’s captain, but it didn’t matter who I
picked, because all the jocks and the popular kids moved
over to Sloan’s side. So did the big group of visitors.
On my side I had Tyson, Corey Bailer the computer geek,
Raj Mandali the calculus whiz, and a half-dozen other kids
who always got harassed by Sloan and his gang. Normally I
would’ve been okay with just Tyson – he was worth half a
team all by himself – but the visitors on Sloan’s team were
almost as tall and strong-looking as Tyson, and there were
six of them.
Matt Sloan spilled a cage full of balls in the middle of the
gym.
‘Scared,’ Tyson mumbled. ‘Smell funny.’
I looked at him. ‘What smells funny?’ Because I didn’t
ﬁgure he was talking about himself.
‘Them.’ Tyson pointed at Sloan’s new friends. ‘Smell
funny.’
The visitors were cracking their knuckles, eyeing us like it
was slaughter time. I couldn’t help wondering where they
were from. Someplace where they fed kids raw meat and
beat them with sticks.
Sloan blew the coach’s whistle and the game began.
Sloan’s team ran for the centre line. On my side, Raj Mandali
yelled something in Urdu, probably ‘I have to go potty!’ and
ran for the exit. Corey Bailer tried to crawl behind the wall
mat and hide. The rest of my team did their best to cower in
fear and not look like targets.
‘Tyson,’ I said. ‘Let’s g–’
A ball slammed into my gut. I sat down hard in the middle
of the gym ﬂoor. The other team exploded in laughter.
My eyesight was fuzzy. I felt like I’d just got the Heimlich
manoeuvre from a gorilla. I couldn’t believe anybody could
334
throw that hard.
Tyson yelled, ‘Percy, duck!’
I rolled as another dodgeball whistled past my ear at the
speed of sound.
Whooom!
It hit the wall mat, and Corey Bailer yelped.
‘Hey!’ I yelled at Sloan’s team. ‘You could kill somebody!’
The visitor named Joe Bob grinned at me evilly. Somehow,
he looked a lot bigger now … even taller than Tyson. His
biceps bulged beneath his T-shirt. ‘I hope so, Perseus
Jackson! I hope so!’
The way he said my name sent a chill down my back.
Nobody called me Perseus except those who knew my true
identity. Friends … and enemies.
What had Tyson said? They smell funny.
Monsters.
All around Matt Sloan, the visitors were growing in size.
They were no longer kids. They were two-and-a-half-metre-
tall giants with wild eyes, pointy teeth and hairy arms
tattooed with snakes and hula women and Valentine hearts.
Matt Sloan dropped his ball. ‘Whoa! You’re not from
Detroit! Who…’
The other kids on his team started screaming and backing
towards the exit, but the giant named Marrow Sucker threw
a ball with deadly accuracy. It streaked past Raj Mandali just
as he was about to leave and hit the door, slamming it shut
like magic. Raj and some of the other kids banged on it
desperately but it wouldn’t budge.
‘Let them go!’ I yelled at the giants.
The one called Joe Bob growled at me. He had a tattoo on
his biceps that said: JB luvs Babycakes. ‘And lose our tasty
morsels? No, Son of the Sea God. We Laistrygonians aren’t
just playing for your death. We want lunch!’
He waved his hand and a new batch of dodgeballs
appeared on the centre line – but these balls weren’t made
of red rubber. They were bronze, the size of cannon balls,
335
perforated like Wiﬄe balls with ﬁre bubbling out the holes.
They must’ve been searing hot, but the giants picked them
up with their bare hands.
‘Coach!’ I yelled.
Nunley looked up sleepily, but if he saw anything
abnormal about the dodgeball game, he didn’t let on. That’s
the problem with mortals. A magical force called the Mist
obscures the true appearance of monsters and gods from
their vision, so mortals tend to see only what they can
understand. Maybe the coach saw a few eighth graders
pounding the younger kids like usual. Maybe the other kids
saw Matt Sloan’s thugs getting ready to toss Molotov
cocktails around. (It wouldn’t have been the ﬁrst time.) At
any rate, I was pretty sure nobody else realized we were
dealing with genuine man-eating bloodthirsty monsters.
‘Yeah. Mm-hmm,’ Coach muttered. ‘Play nice.’
And he went back to his magazine.
The giant named Skull Eater threw his ball. I dived aside
as the ﬁery bronze comet sailed past my shoulder.
‘Corey!’ I screamed.
Tyson pulled him out from behind the exercise mat just as
the ball exploded against it, blasting the mat to smoking
shreds.
‘Run!’ I told my teammates. ‘The other exit!’
They ran for the locker room, but with another wave of Joe
Bob’s hand, that door also slammed shut.
‘No one leaves unless you’re out!’ Joe Bob roared. ‘And
you’re not out until we eat you!’
He launched his own ﬁreball. My teammates scattered as
it blasted a crater in the gym ﬂoor.
I reached for Riptide, which I always kept in my pocket,
but then I realized I was wearing gym shorts. I had no
pockets. Riptide was tucked in my jeans inside my gym
locker. And the locker room door was sealed. I was
completely defenceless.
336
Another ﬁreball came streaking towards me. Tyson pushed
me out of the way, but the explosion still blew me head over
heels. I found myself sprawled on the gym ﬂoor, dazed from
smoke, my tie-dyed T-shirt peppered with sizzling holes. Just
across the centre line, two hungry giants were glaring down
at me.
‘Flesh!’ they bellowed. ‘Hero ﬂesh for lunch!’ They both
took aim.
‘Percy needs help!’ Tyson yelled, and he jumped in front of
me just as they threw their balls.
‘Tyson!’ I screamed, but it was too late.
Both balls slammed into him … but no … he’d caught
them. Somehow Tyson, who was so clumsy he knocked over
lab equipment and broke playground structures on a regular
basis, had caught two ﬁery metal balls speeding towards
him at a zillion miles an hour. He sent them hurtling back
towards their surprised owners, who screamed, ‘BAAAAAD!’
as the bronze spheres exploded against their chests.
The giants disintegrated in twin columns of ﬂame – a sure
sign they were monsters, all right. Monsters don’t die. They
just dissipate into smoke and dust, which saves heroes a lot
of trouble cleaning up after a ﬁght.
‘My brothers!’ Joe Bob the Cannibal wailed. He ﬂexed his
muscles and his Babycakes tattoo rippled. ‘You will pay for
their destruction!’
‘Tyson!’ I said. ‘Look out!’
Another comet hurtled towards us. Tyson just had time to
swat it aside. It ﬂew straight over Coach Nunley’s head and
landed in the stands with a huge KA-BOOM!
Kids were running around screaming, trying to avoid the
sizzling craters in the ﬂoor. Others were banging on the
door, calling for help. Sloan himself stood petriﬁed in the
middle of the court, watching in disbelief as balls of death
ﬂew around him.
Coach Nunley still wasn’t seeing anything. He tapped his
hearing aid like the explosions were giving him interference,
337
but he kept his eyes on his magazine.
Surely the whole school could hear the noise. The
headmaster, the police, somebody would come help us.
‘Victory will be ours!’ roared Joe Bob the Cannibal. ‘We will
feast on your bones!’
I wanted to tell him he was taking the dodgeball game
way too seriously, but before I could, he hefted another ball.
The other three giants followed his lead.
I knew we were dead. Tyson couldn’t deﬂect all those balls
at once. His hands had to be seriously burned from blocking
the ﬁrst volley. Without my sword …
I had a crazy idea.
I ran towards the locker room.
‘Move!’ I told my teammates. ‘Away from the door.’
Explosions behind me. Tyson had batted two of the balls
back towards their owners and blasted them to ashes.
That left two giants still standing.
A third ball hurtled straight at me. I forced myself to wait –
one Mississippi, two Mississippi – then dived aside as the
ﬁery sphere demolished the locker room door.
Now, I ﬁgured that the built-up gas in most boys’ locker
rooms was enough to cause an explosion, so I wasn’t
surprised when the ﬂaming dodgeball ignited a huge
WHOOOOOOOM!
The wall blew apart. Locker doors, socks, athletic supports
and other various nasty personal belongings rained all over
the gym.
I turned just in time to see Tyson punch Skull Eater in the
face. The giant crumpled. But the last giant, Joe Bob, had
wisely held on to his own ball, waiting for an opportunity. He
threw just as Tyson was turning to face him.
‘No!’ I yelled.
The ball caught Tyson square in the chest. He slid the
length of the court and slammed into the back wall, which
cracked and partially crumbled on top of him, making a hole
right onto Church Street. I didn’t see how Tyson could still be
338
alive, but he only looked dazed. The bronze ball was
smoking at his feet. Tyson tried to pick it up, but he fell
back, stunned, into a pile of cinder blocks.
‘Well!’ Joe Bob gloated. ‘I’m the last one standing! I’ll have
enough meat to bring Babycakes a doggy bag!’
He picked up another ball and aimed it at Tyson.
‘Stop!’ I yelled. ‘It’s me you want!’
The giant grinned. ‘You wish to die ﬁrst, young hero?’
I had to do something. Riptide had to be around here
somewhere.
Then I spotted my jeans in a smoking heap of clothes right
by the giant’s feet. If I could only get there … I knew it was
hopeless, but I charged.
The giant laughed. ‘My lunch approaches.’ He raised his
arm to throw. I braced myself to die.
Suddenly the giant’s body went rigid. His expression
changed from gloating to surprise. Right where his belly
button should’ve been, his T-shirt ripped open and he grew
something like a horn – no, not a horn – the glowing tip of a
blade.
The ball dropped out of his hand. The monster stared
down at the knife that had just run him through from
behind.
He muttered, ‘Ow,’ and burst into a cloud of green ﬂame,
which I ﬁgured was going to make Babycakes pretty upset.
Standing in the smoke was my friend Annabeth. Her face
was grimy and scratched. She had a ragged backpack slung
over her shoulder, her baseball cap tucked in her pocket, a
bronze knife in her hand, and a wild look in her storm-grey
eyes, like she’d just been chased a thousand miles by
ghosts.
Matt Sloan, who’d been standing there dumbfounded the
whole time, ﬁnally came to his senses. He blinked at
Annabeth, as if he dimly recognized her from my notebook
picture. ‘That’s the girl … That’s the girl –’
339
Annabeth punched him in the nose and knocked him ﬂat.
‘And you’, she told him, ‘lay oﬀ my friend.’
The gym was in ﬂames. Kids were still running around
screaming. I heard sirens wailing and a garbled voice over
the intercom. Through the glass windows of the exit doors, I
could see the headmaster, Mr Bonsai, wrestling with the
lock, a crowd of teachers piling up behind him.
‘Annabeth…’ I stammered. ‘How did you … how long have
you…’
‘Pretty much all morning.’ She sheathed her bronze knife.
‘I’ve been trying to ﬁnd a good time to talk to you, but you
were never alone.’
‘The shadow I saw this morning – that was –’ My face felt
hot. ‘Oh my gods, you were looking in my bedroom
window?’
‘There’s no time to explain!’ she snapped, though she
looked a little red-faced herself. ‘I just didn’t want to –’
‘There!’ a woman screamed. The doors burst open and the
adults came pouring in.
‘Meet me outside,’ Annabeth told me. ‘And him.’ She
pointed to Tyson, who was still sitting dazed against the
wall. Annabeth gave him a look of distaste that I didn’t quite
understand. ‘You’d better bring him.’
‘What?’
‘No time!’ she said. ‘Hurry!’
She put on her Yankees baseball cap, which was a magic
gift from her mom, and instantly vanished.
That left me standing alone in the middle of the burning
gymnasium when the headmaster came charging in with
half the faculty and a couple of police oﬃcers.
‘Percy Jackson?’ Mr Bonsai said. ‘What … how…’
Over by the broken wall, Tyson groaned and stood up from
the pile of cinder blocks. ‘Head hurts.’
Matt Sloan was coming around, too. He focused on me
with a look of terror. ‘Percy did it, Mr Bonsai! He set the
340
whole building on ﬁre. Coach Nunley will tell you! He saw it
all!’
Coach Nunley had been dutifully reading his magazine,
but just my luck – he chose that moment to look up when
Sloan said his name. ‘Eh? Yeah. Mm-hmm.’
The other adults turned towards me. I knew they would
never believe me, even if I could tell them the truth.
I grabbed Riptide out of my ruined jeans, told Tyson,
‘Come on!’ and jumped through the gaping hole in the side
of the building.
341
3    We Hail the Taxi of Eternal Torment
 
Annabeth was waiting for us in an alley down Church Street.
She pulled Tyson and me oﬀ the sidewalk just as a ﬁre truck
screamed past, heading for Meriwether Prep.
‘Where’d you ﬁnd him?’ she demanded, pointing at Tyson.
Now, under diﬀerent circumstances, I would’ve been really
happy to see her. We’d made our peace last summer,
despite the fact that her mom was Athena and didn’t get
along with my dad. I’d missed Annabeth probably more than
I wanted to admit.
But I’d just been attacked by cannibal giants, Tyson had
saved my life three or four times, and all Annabeth could do
was glare at him like he was the problem.
‘He’s my friend,’ I told her.
‘Is he homeless?’
‘What does that have to do with anything? He can hear
you, you know. Why don’t you ask him?’
She looked surprised. ‘He can talk?’
‘I talk,’ Tyson admitted. ‘You are pretty.’
‘Ah! Gross!’ Annabeth stepped away from him.
I couldn’t believe she was being so rude. I examined
Tyson’s hands, which I was sure must’ve been badly
scorched by the ﬂaming dodgeballs, but they looked ﬁne –
grimy and scarred, with dirty ﬁngernails the size of potato
chips – but they always looked like that. ‘Tyson,’ I said in
disbelief. ‘Your hands aren’t even burned.’
‘Of course not,’ Annabeth muttered. ‘I’m surprised the
Laistrygonians had the guts to attack you with him around.’
342
Tyson seemed fascinated by Annabeth’s blonde hair. He
tried to touch it, but she smacked his hand away.
‘Annabeth,’ I said, ‘what are you talking about? Laistry-
what?’
‘Laistrygonians. The monsters in the gym. They’re a race
of giant cannibals who live in the far north. Odysseus ran
into them once, but I’ve never seen them as far south as
New York before.’
‘Laistry – I can’t even say that. What would you call them
in English?’
She thought about it for a moment. ‘Canadians,’ she
decided. ‘Now come on, we have to get out of here.’
‘The police’ll be after me.’
‘That’s the least of our problems,’ she said. ‘Have you
been having the dreams?’
‘The dreams … about Grover?’
Her face turned pale. ‘Grover? No, what about Grover?’
I told her my dream. ‘Why? What were you dreaming
about?’
Her eyes looked stormy, like her mind was racing a million
miles an hour.
‘Camp,’ she said at last. ‘Big trouble at camp.’
‘My mom was saying the same thing! But what kind of
trouble?’
‘I don’t know exactly. Something’s wrong. We have to get
there right away. Monsters have been chasing me all the
way from Virginia, trying to stop me. Have you had a lot of
attacks?’
I shook my head. ‘None all year … until today.’
‘None? But how…’ Her eyes drifted to Tyson. ‘Oh.’
‘What do mean, “oh”?’
Tyson raised his hand like he was still in class. ‘Canadians
in the gym called Percy something … Son of the Sea God?’
Annabeth and I exchanged looks.
I didn’t know how I could explain, but I ﬁgured Tyson
deserved the truth after almost getting killed.
343
‘Big guy,’ I said, ‘you ever hear those old stories about the
Greek gods? Like Zeus, Poseidon, Athena –’
‘Yes,’ Tyson said.
‘Well … those gods are still alive. They kind of follow
Western 
Civilization 
around, 
living 
in 
the 
strongest
countries, so like now they’re in the U.S. And sometimes
they have kids with mortals. Kids called half-bloods.’
‘Yes,’ Tyson said, like he was still waiting for me to get to
the point.
‘Uh, well, Annabeth and I are half-bloods,’ I said. ‘We’re
like … heroes-in-training. And whenever monsters pick up
our scent, they attack us. That’s what those giants were in
the gym. Monsters.’
‘Yes.’
I stared at him. He didn’t seem surprised or confused by
what I was telling him, which surprised and confused me.
‘So … you believe me?’
Tyson nodded. ‘But you are … Son of the Sea God?’
‘Yeah,’ I admitted. ‘My dad is Poseidon.’
Tyson frowned. Now he looked confused. ‘But then…’
A siren wailed. A police car raced past our alley.
‘We don’t have time for this,’ Annabeth said. ‘We’ll talk in
the taxi.’
‘A taxi all the way to camp?’ I said. ‘You know how much
money –’
‘Trust me.’
I hesitated. ‘What about Tyson?’
I imagined escorting my giant friend into Camp Half-Blood.
If he freaked out on a regular playground with regular
bullies, how would he act at a training camp for demigods?
On the other hand, the cops would be looking for us.
‘We can’t just leave him,’ I decided. ‘He’ll be in trouble,
too.’
‘Yeah.’ Annabeth looked grim. ‘We deﬁnitely need to take
him. Now come on.’
344
I didn’t like the way she said that, as if Tyson were a big
disease we needed to get to the hospital, but I followed her
down the alley. Together the three of us sneaked through
the side streets of downtown while a huge column of smoke
billowed up behind us from my school gymnasium.
‘Here.’ Annabeth stopped us on the corner of Thomas and
Trimble. She ﬁshed around in her backpack. ‘I hope I have
one left.’
She looked even worse than I’d realized at ﬁrst. Her chin
was cut. Twigs and grass were tangled in her ponytail, as if
she’d slept several nights in the open. The slashes on the
hems of her jeans looked suspiciously like claw marks.
‘What are you looking for?’ I asked.
All around us, sirens wailed. I ﬁgured it wouldn’t be long
before more cops cruised by, looking for juvenile delinquent
gym-bombers. No doubt Matt Sloan had given them a
statement by now. He’d probably twisted the story around
so that Tyson and I were the bloodthirsty cannibals.
‘Found one. Thank the gods.’ Annabeth pulled out a gold
coin that I recognized as a drachma, the currency of Mount
Olympus. It had Zeus’s likeness stamped on one side and
the Empire State Building on the other.
‘Annabeth,’ I said, ‘New York taxi drivers won’t take that.’
‘Anakoche’ she shouted in Ancient Greek. ‘Harma
epitribeios!’
As usual, the moment she spoke in the language of
Olympus, I somehow understood it. She’d said, Stop, Chariot
of Damnation!
That didn’t exactly make me feel real excited about
whatever her plan was.
She threw her coin into the street, but instead of
clattering on the tarmac, the drachma sank right through
and disappeared.
For a moment, nothing happened.
345
Then, just where the coin had fallen, the tarmac darkened.
It melted into a rectangular pool about the size of a parking
space – bubbling red liquid like blood. Then a car erupted
from the ooze.
It was a taxi, all right, but, unlike every other taxi in New
York, it wasn’t yellow. It was smoky grey. I mean it looked
like it was woven out of smoke, like you could walk right
through it. There were words printed on the door –
something like GYAR SSIRES – but my dyslexia made it hard
for me to decipher what it said.
The passenger window rolled down, and an old woman
stuck her head out. She had a mop of grizzled hair covering
her eyes, and she spoke in a weird mumbling way, like she’d
just had a shot of Novocain. ‘Passage? Passage?’
‘Three to Camp Half-Blood,’ Annabeth said. She opened
the cab’s back door and waved at me to get in, like this was
all completely normal.
‘Ach!’ the old woman screeched. ‘We don’t take his kind!’
She pointed a bony ﬁnger at Tyson.
What was it? Pick-on-Big-and-Ugly-Kids Day?
‘Extra pay,’ Annabeth promised. ‘Three more drachmas on
arrival.’
‘Done!’ the woman screamed.
Reluctantly I got in the cab. Tyson squeezed in the middle.
Annabeth crawled in last.
The interior was also smoky grey, but it felt solid enough.
The seat was cracked and lumpy – no diﬀerent than most
taxis. There was no Plexiglas screen separating us from the
old lady driving … Wait a minute. There wasn’t just one old
lady. There were three, all crammed in the front seat, each
with stringy hair covering her eyes, bony hands and a
charcoal-coloured sackcloth dress.
The one driving said, ‘Long Island! Out-of-metro fare
bonus! Ha!’
She ﬂoored the accelerator, and my head slammed
against the backrest. A pre-recorded voice came on over the
346
speaker: Hi, this is Ganymede, cup-bearer to Zeus, and
when I’m out buying wine for the Lord of the Skies, I always
buckle up!
I looked down and found a large black chain instead of a
seat belt. I decided I wasn’t that desperate … yet.
The cab sped around the corner of West Broadway, and
the grey lady sitting in the middle screeched, ‘Look out! Go
left!’
‘Well, if you’d give me the eye, Tempest, I could see that!’
the driver complained.
Wait a minute. Give her the eye?
I didn’t have time to ask questions because the driver
swerved to avoid an oncoming delivery truck, ran over the
kerb with a jaw-rattling thump, and ﬂew into the next block.
‘Wasp!’ the third lady said to the driver. ‘Give me the girl’s
coin! I want to bite it.’
‘You bit it last time, Anger!’ said the driver, whose name
must’ve been Wasp. ‘It’s my turn!’
‘Is not!’ yelled the one called Anger.
The middle one, Tempest, screamed, ‘Red light!’
‘Brake!’ yelled Anger.
Instead, Wasp ﬂoored the accelerator and rode up on the
kerb, screeching around another corner, and knocking over
a newspaper box. She left my stomach somewhere back on
Broome Street.
‘Excuse me,’ I said. ‘But … can you see?’
‘No!’ screamed Wasp from behind the wheel.
‘No!’ screamed Tempest from the middle.
‘Of course!’ screamed Anger by the shotgun window.
I looked at Annabeth. ‘They’re blind?’
‘Not completely,’ Annabeth said. ‘They have an eye.’
‘One eye?’
‘Yeah.’
‘Each?’
‘No. One eye total.’
347
Next to me, Tyson groaned and grabbed the seat. ‘Not
feeling so good.’
‘Oh, man,’ I said, because I’d seen Tyson get carsick on
school ﬁeld trips and it was not something you wanted to be
within ﬁfteen metres of. ‘Hang in there, big guy. Anybody
got a garbage bag or something?’
The three grey ladies were too busy squabbling to pay me
any attention. I looked over at Annabeth, who was hanging
on for dear life, and I gave her a why-did-you-do-this-to-me
look.
‘Hey,’ she said, ‘Grey Sisters Taxi is the fastest way to
camp.’
‘Then why didn’t you take it from Virginia?’
‘That’s outside their service area,’ she said, like that
should be obvious. ‘They only serve Greater New York and
surrounding communities.’
‘We’ve had famous people in this cab!’ Anger exclaimed.
‘Jason! You remember him?’
‘Don’t remind me!’ Wasp wailed. ‘And we didn’t have a
cab back then, you old bat. That was three thousand years
ago!’
‘Give me the tooth!’ Anger tried to grab at Wasp’s mouth,
but Wasp swatted her hand away.
‘Only if Tempest gives me the eye!’
‘No!’ Tempest screeched. ‘You had it yesterday!’
‘But I’m driving, you old hag!’
‘Excuses! Turn! That was your turn!’
Wasp swerved hard onto Delancey Street, squishing me
between Tyson and the door. She punched the gas and we
shot up the Williamsburg Bridge at seventy miles an hour.
The three sisters were ﬁghting for real now, slapping each
other as Anger tried to grab at Wasp’s face and Wasp tried
to grab at Tempest’s. With their hair ﬂying and their mouths
open, screaming at each other, I realized that none of the
sisters had any teeth except for Wasp, who had one mossy
yellow incisor. Instead of eyes, they just had closed, sunken
348
eyelids, except for Anger, who had one bloodshot green eye
that stared at everything hungrily, as if it couldn’t get
enough of anything it saw.
Finally Anger, who had the advantage of sight, managed
to yank the tooth out of her sister Wasp’s mouth. This made
Wasp so mad she swerved towards the edge of the
Williamsburg Bridge, yelling, ‘’Ivit back! ’Ivit back!’
Tyson groaned and clutched his stomach.
‘Uh, if anybody’s interested,’ I said, ‘we’re going to die!’
‘Don’t worry,’ Annabeth told me, sounding pretty worried.
‘The Grey Sisters know what they’re doing. They’re really
very wise.’
This coming from the daughter of Athena, but I wasn’t
exactly reassured. We were skimming along the edge of a
bridge forty metres above the East River.
‘Yes, wise!’ Anger grinned in the rear-view mirror, showing
oﬀ her newly acquired tooth. ‘We know things!’
‘Every street in Manhattan!’ Wasp bragged, still hitting her
sister. ‘The capital of Nepal!’
‘The location you seek!’ Tempest added.
Immediately her sisters pummelled her from either side,
screaming, ‘Be quiet! Be quiet! He didn’t even ask yet!’
‘What?’ I said. ‘What location? I’m not seeking any –’
‘Nothing!’ Tempest said. ‘You’re right, boy. It’s nothing!’
‘Tell me.’
‘No!’ they all screamed.
‘The last time we told, it was horrible!’ Tempest said.
‘Eye tossed in a lake!’ Anger agreed.
‘Years to ﬁnd it again!’ Wasp moaned. ‘And speaking of
that – give it back!’
‘No!’ yelled Anger.
‘Eye!’ Wasp yelled. ‘Gimme!’
She whacked her sister Anger on the back. There was a
sickening pop and something ﬂew out of Anger’s face. Anger
fumbled for it, trying to catch it, but she only managed to
bat it with the back of her hand. The slimy green orb sailed
349
over her shoulder, into the back seat, and straight into my
lap.
I jumped so hard, my head hit the ceiling and the eyeball
rolled away.
‘I can’t see!’ all three sisters yelled.
‘Give me the eye!’ Wasp wailed.
‘Give her the eye!’ Annabeth screamed.
‘I don’t have it!’ I said.
‘There, by your foot,’ Annabeth said. ‘Don’t step on it! Get
it!’
‘I’m not picking that up!’
The taxi slammed against the guardrail and skidded along
with a horrible grinding noise. The whole car shuddered,
billowing grey smoke as if it were about to dissolve from the
strain.
‘Going to be sick!’ Tyson warned.
‘Annabeth,’ I yelled, ‘let Tyson use your backpack!’
‘Are you crazy? Get the eye!’
Wasp yanked the wheel, and the taxi swerved away from
the rail. We hurtled down the bridge towards Brooklyn,
going faster than any human taxi. The Grey Sisters
screeched and pummelled each other and cried out for their
eye.
At last I steeled my nerves. I ripped oﬀ a chunk of my tie-
dyed T-shirt, which was already falling apart from all the
burn marks, and used it to pick the eyeball oﬀ the ﬂoor.
‘Nice boy!’ Anger cried, as if she somehow knew I had her
missing peeper. ‘Give it back!’
‘Not until you explain,’ I told her. ‘What were you talking
about, the location I seek?’
‘No time!’ Tempest cried. ‘Accelerating!’
I looked out the window. Sure enough, trees and cars and
whole neighbourhoods were now zipping by in a grey blur.
We were already out of Brooklyn, heading through the
middle of Long Island.
350
‘Percy,’ Annabeth warned, ‘they can’t ﬁnd our destination
without the eye. We’ll just keep accelerating until we break
into a million pieces.’
‘First they have to tell me,’ I said. ‘Or I’ll open the window
and throw the eye into oncoming traﬃc.’
‘No!’ the Grey Sisters wailed. ‘Too dangerous!’
‘I’m rolling down the window.’
‘Wait!’ the Grey Sisters screamed. ‘Thirty, thirty-one,
seventy-ﬁve, twelve!’
They belted it out like a quarterback calling a play.
‘What do you mean?’ I said. ‘That makes no sense!’
‘Thirty, thirty-one, seventy-ﬁve, twelve!’ Anger wailed.
‘That’s all we can tell you. Now give us the eye! Almost to
camp!’
We were oﬀ the highway now, zipping through the
countryside of northern Long Island. I could see Half-Blood
Hill ahead of us, with its giant pine tree at the crest –
Thalia’s tree, which contained the life force of a fallen hero.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth said more urgently. ‘Give them the eye
now!’
I decided not to argue. I threw the eye into Wasp’s lap.
The old lady snatched it up, pushed it into her eye socket
like somebody putting in a contact lens, and blinked.
‘Whoa!’
She slammed on the brakes. The taxi spun four or ﬁve
times in a cloud of smoke and squealed to a halt in the
middle of the farm road at the base of Half-Blood Hill.
Tyson let loose a huge belch. ‘Better now.’
‘All right,’ I told the Grey Sisters. ‘Now tell me what those
numbers mean.’
‘No time!’ Annabeth opened her door. ‘We have to get out
now.’
I was about to ask why, when I looked up at Half-Blood Hill
and understood.
At the crest of the hill was a group of campers. And they
were under attack.
351
4    Tyson Plays with Fire
 
Mythologically speaking, if there’s anything I hate worse
than trios of old ladies, it’s bulls. Last summer, I fought the
Minotaur on top of Half-Blood Hill. This time what I saw up
there was even worse: two bulls. And not just regular bulls –
bronze ones the size of elephants. And even that wasn’t bad
enough. Naturally they had to breathe ﬁre, too.
As soon as we exited the taxi, the Grey Sisters peeled out,
heading back to New York, where life was safer. They didn’t
even wait for their extra three-drachma payment. They just
left us on the side of the road, Annabeth with nothing but
her backpack and knife, Tyson and me still in our burned-up
tie-dyed gym clothes.
‘Oh, man,’ said Annabeth, looking at the battle raging on
the hill.
What worried me most weren’t the bulls themselves. Or
the ten heroes in full battle armour who were getting their
bronze-plated booties whooped. What worried me was that
the bulls were ranging all over the hill, even around the
back side of the pine tree. That shouldn’t have been
possible. The camp’s magic boundaries didn’t allow
monsters to cross past Thalia’s tree. But the metal bulls
were doing it anyway.
One of the heroes shouted, ‘Border patrol, to me!’ A girl’s
voice – gruﬀ and familiar.
Border patrol? I thought. The camp didn’t have a border
patrol.
‘It’s Clarisse,’ Annabeth said. ‘Come on, we have to help
her.’
352
Normally, rushing to Clarisse’s aid would not have been
high on my ‘to do’ list. She was one of the biggest bullies at
camp. The ﬁrst time we’d met she tried to introduce my
head to a toilet. She was also a daughter of Ares, and I’d
had a very serious disagreement with her father last
summer, so now the god of war and all his children basically
hated my guts.
Still, she was in trouble. Her fellow warriors were
scattering, running in panic as the bulls charged. The grass
was burning in huge swathes around the pine tree. One hero
screamed and waved his arms as he ran in circles, the
horsehair plume on his helmet blazing like a ﬁery Mohawk.
Clarisse’s own armour was charred. She was ﬁghting with a
broken spear shaft, the other end embedded uselessly in
the metal joint of one bull’s shoulder.
I uncapped my ballpoint pen. It shimmered, growing
longer and heavier until I held the bronze sword Anaklusmos
in my hands. ‘Tyson, stay here. I don’t want you taking any
more chances.’
‘No!’ Annabeth said. ‘We need him.’
I stared at her. ‘He’s mortal. He got lucky with the
dodgeballs but he can’t –’
‘Percy, do you know what those are up there? The Colchis
bulls, made by Hephaestus himself. We can’t ﬁght them
without Medea’s Sunscreen SPF 50,000. We’ll get burned to
a crisp.’
‘Medea’s what?’
Annabeth rummaged through her backpack and cursed. ‘I
had a jar of tropical coconut scent sitting on my nightstand
at home. Why didn’t I bring it?’
I’d learned a long time ago not to question Annabeth too
much. It just made me more confused. ‘Look, I don’t know
what you’re talking about, but I’m not going to let Tyson get
fried.’
‘Percy –’
‘Tyson, stay back.’ I raised my sword. ‘I’m going in.’
353
Tyson tried to protest, but I was already running up the hill
towards Clarisse, who was yelling at her patrol, trying to get
them into phalanx formation. It was a good idea. The few
who were listening lined up shoulder to shoulder, locking
their shields to form an ox-hide-and-bronze wall, their
spears bristling over the top like porcupine quills.
Unfortunately, Clarisse could only muster six campers.
The other four were still running around with their helmets
on ﬁre. Annabeth ran towards them, trying to help. She
taunted one of the bulls into chasing her, then turned
invisible, completely confusing the monster. The other bull
charged Clarisse’s line.
I was halfway up the hill – not close enough to help.
Clarisse hadn’t even seen me yet.
The bull moved deadly fast for something so big. Its metal
hide gleamed in the sun. It had ﬁst-sized rubies for eyes and
horns of polished silver. When it opened its hinged mouth, a
column of white-hot ﬂame blasted out.
‘Hold the line!’ Clarisse ordered her warriors.
Whatever else you could say about Clarisse, she was
brave. She was a big girl with cruel eyes like her father’s.
She looked like she was born to wear Greek battle armour,
but I didn’t see how even she could stand against that bull’s
charge.
Unfortunately, at that moment, the other bull lost interest
in ﬁnding Annabeth. It turned, wheeling around behind
Clarisse on her unprotected side.
‘Behind you!’ I yelled. ‘Look out!’
I shouldn’t have said anything, because all I did was
startle her. Bull Number One crashed into her shield, and
the phalanx broke. Clarisse went ﬂying backwards and
landed in a smouldering patch of grass. The bull charged
past her, but not before blasting the other heroes with its
ﬁery breath. Their shields melted right oﬀ their arms. They
dropped their weapons and ran as Bull Number Two closed
in on Clarisse for the kill.
354
I lunged forward and grabbed Clarisse by the straps of her
armour. I dragged her out of the way just as Bull Number
Two freight-trained past. I gave it a good swipe with Riptide
and cut a huge gash in its ﬂank, but the monster just
creaked and groaned and kept on going.
It hadn’t touched me, but I could feel the heat of its metal
skin. Its body temperature could’ve microwaved a frozen
burrito.
‘Let me go!’ Clarisse pummelled my hand. ‘Percy, curse
you!’
I dropped her in a heap next to the pine tree and turned to
face the bulls. We were on the inside slope of the hill now,
the valley of Camp Half-Blood directly below us – the cabins,
the training facilities, the Big House – all of it at risk if these
bulls got past us.
Annabeth shouted orders to the other heroes, telling them
to spread out and keep the bulls distracted.
Bull Number One ran a wide arc, making its way back
towards me. As it passed the middle of the hill, where the
invisible boundary line should’ve kept it out, it slowed down
a little, as if it were struggling against a strong wind; but
then it broke through and kept coming. Bull Number Two
turned to face me, ﬁre sputtering from the gash I’d cut in its
side. I couldn’t tell if it felt any pain, but its ruby eyes
seemed to glare at me like I’d just made things personal.
I couldn’t ﬁght both bulls at the same time. I’d have to
take down Bull Number Two ﬁrst, cut its head oﬀ before Bull
Number One charged back into range. My arms already felt
tired. I realized how long it had been since I’d worked out
with Riptide, how out of practice I was.
I lunged but Bull Number Two blew ﬂames at me. I rolled
aside as the air turned to pure heat. All the oxygen was
sucked out of my lungs. My foot caught on something – a
tree root, maybe – and pain shot up my ankle. Still, I
managed to slash with my sword and lop oﬀ part of the
monster’s snout. It galloped away, wild and disoriented. But
355
before I could feel too good about that, I tried to stand, and
my left leg buckled underneath me. My ankle was sprained,
maybe broken.
Bull Number One charged straight towards me. No way
could I crawl out of its path.
Annabeth shouted, ‘Tyson, help him!’
Somewhere near, towards the crest of the hill, Tyson
wailed, ‘Can’t – get – through!’
‘I, Annabeth Chase, give you permission to enter camp!’
Thunder shook the hillside. Suddenly Tyson was there,
barrelling towards me, yelling, ‘Percy needs help!’
Before I could tell him no, he dived between me and the
bull just as it unleashed a nuclear ﬁrestorm.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
The blast swirled around him like a red tornado. I could
only see the black silhouette of his body. I knew with
horrible certainty that my friend had just been turned into a
column of ashes.
But when the ﬁre died, Tyson was still standing there,
completely unharmed. Not even his grungy clothes were
scorched. The bull must’ve been as surprised as I was,
because before it could unleash a second blast, Tyson balled
his ﬁsts and slammed them into the bull’s face. ‘BAD COW!’
His ﬁsts made a crater where the bronze bull’s snout used
to be. Two small columns of ﬂame shot out of its ears. Tyson
hit it again, and the bronze crumpled under his hands like
aluminium foil. The bull’s face now looked like a sock puppet
pulled inside out.
‘Down!’ Tyson yelled.
The bull staggered and fell on its back. Its legs moved
feebly in the air, steam coming out of its ruined head in odd
places.
Annabeth ran over to check on me.
My ankle felt like it was ﬁlled with acid, but she gave me
some Olympian nectar to drink from her canteen, and I
immediately started to feel better. There was a burning
356
smell that I later learned was me. The hair on my arms had
been completely singed oﬀ.
‘The other bull?’ I asked.
Annabeth pointed down the hill. Clarisse had taken care of
Bad Cow Number Two. She’d impaled it through the back leg
with a celestial bronze spear. Now, with its snout half gone
and a huge gash in its side, it was trying to run in slow
motion, going in circles like some kind of merry-go-round
animal.
Clarisse pulled oﬀ her helmet and marched towards us. A
strand of her stringy brown hair was smouldering, but she
didn’t seem to notice. ‘You – ruin – everything!’ she yelled at
me. ‘I had it under control!’
I was too stunned to answer. Annabeth grumbled, ‘Good
to see you too, Clarisse.’
Argh!’ Clarisse screamed. ‘Don’t ever, EVER try saving me
again!’
‘Clarisse,’ Annabeth said, ‘you’ve got wounded campers.’
That sobered her up. Even Clarisse cared about the
soldiers under her command.
‘I’ll be back,’ she growled, then trudged oﬀ to assess the
damage.
I stared at Tyson. ‘You didn’t die.’
Tyson looked down like he was embarrassed. ‘I am sorry.
Came to help. Disobeyed you.’
‘My fault,’ Annabeth said. ‘I had no choice. I had to let
Tyson cross the boundary line to save you. Otherwise, you
would’ve died.’
‘Let him cross the boundary line?” I asked. ‘But –’
‘Percy,’ she said, ‘have you ever looked at Tyson closely? I
mean … in the face. Ignore the Mist, and really look at him.’
The Mist makes humans see only what their brains can
process … I knew it could fool demigods, too, but …
I looked Tyson in the face. It wasn’t easy. I’d always had
trouble looking directly at him, though I’d never quite
understood why. I’d thought it was just because he always
357
had peanut butter in his crooked teeth. I forced myself to
focus at his big lumpy nose, then a little higher at his eyes.
No, not eyes.
One eye. One large, calf-brown eye, right in the middle of
his forehead, with thick lashes and big tears trickling down
his cheeks on either side.
‘Tyson,’ I stammered. ‘You’re a…’
‘Cyclops,’ Annabeth oﬀered. ‘A baby, by the looks of him.
Probably why he couldn’t get past the boundary line as
easily as the bulls. Tyson’s one of the homeless orphans.’
‘One of the what?’
‘They’re in almost all the big cities,’ Annabeth said
distastefully. ‘They’re … mistakes, Percy. Children of nature
spirits and gods … Well, one god in particular, usually … and
they don’t always come out right. No one wants them. They
get tossed aside. They grow up wild on the streets. I don’t
know how this one found you, but he obviously likes you. We
should take him to Chiron, let him decide what to do.’
‘But the ﬁre. How –’
‘He’s a Cyclops.’ Annabeth paused, as if she were
remembering something unpleasant. ‘They work the forges
of the gods. They have to be immune to ﬁre. That’s what I
was trying to tell you.’
I was completely shocked. How had I never realized what
Tyson was?
But I didn’t have much time to think about it just then.
The whole side of the hill was burning. Wounded heroes
needed attention. And there were still two banged-up
bronze bulls to dispose of, which I didn’t ﬁgure would ﬁt in
our normal recycling bins.
Clarisse came back over and wiped the soot oﬀ her
forehead. ‘Jackson, if you can stand, get up. We need to
carry the wounded back to the Big House, let Tantalus know
what’s happened.’
‘Tantalus?’ I asked.
‘The activities director,’ Clarisse said impatiently.
358
‘Chiron is the activities director. And where’s Argus? He’s
head of security. He should be here.’
Clarisse made a sour face. ‘Argus got ﬁred. You two have
been gone too long. Things are changing.’
‘But Chiron … He’s trained kids to ﬁght monsters for over
three thousand years. He can’t just be gone. What
happened?’
‘That happened,’ Clarisse snapped.
She pointed to Thalia’s tree.
Every camper knew the story behind the tree. Six years
ago, Grover, Annabeth and two other demigods named
Thalia and Luke had come to Camp Half-Blood chased by an
army of monsters. When they got cornered on top of this
hill, Thalia, a daughter of Zeus, had made her last stand
here to give her friends time to reach safety. As she was
dying, her father Zeus took pity on her and changed her into
a pine tree. Her spirit had reinforced the magic borders of
the camp, protecting it from monsters. The pine had been
here ever since, strong and healthy.
But now, its needles were yellow. A huge pile of dead ones
littered the base of the tree. In the centre of the trunk, a
metre from the ground, was a puncture mark the size of a
bullet hole, oozing green sap.
A sliver of ice ran through my chest. Now I understood
why the camp was in danger. The magical borders were
failing because Thalia’s tree was dying.
Someone had poisoned it.
359
5    I Get a New Cabin Mate
 
Ever come home and found your room messed up? Like
some helpful person (hi, Mom) has tried to ‘clean’ it, and
suddenly you can’t ﬁnd anything? And even if nothing is
missing, you get that creepy feeling like somebody’s been
looking through your private stuﬀ and dusting everything
with lemon furniture polish?
That’s kind of the way I felt seeing Camp Half-Blood again.
On the surface, things didn’t look all that diﬀerent. The
Big House was still there with its blue gabled roof and its
wraparound porch. The strawberry ﬁelds still baked in the
sun. The same white-columned Greek buildings were
scattered around the valley – the amphitheatre, the combat
arena, the dining pavilion overlooking Long Island Sound.
And nestled between the woods and the creek were the
same cabins – a crazy assortment of twelve buildings, each
representing a diﬀerent Olympian god.
But there was an air of danger now. You could tell
something was wrong. Instead of playing volleyball in the
sandpit, counsellors and satyrs were stockpiling weapons in
the tool shed. Dryads armed with bows and arrows talked
nervously at the edge of the woods. The forest looked sickly,
the grass in the meadow was pale yellow, and the ﬁre marks
on Half-Blood Hill stood out like ugly scars.
Somebody had messed with my favourite place in the
world, and I was not … well, a happy camper.
As we made our way to the Big House, I recognized a lot
of kids from last summer. Nobody stopped to talk. Nobody
said, ‘Welcome back.’ Some did double takes when they saw
360
Tyson, but most just walked grimly past and carried on with
their duties – running messages, toting swords to sharpen
on the grinding wheels. The camp felt like a military school.
And believe me, I know. I’ve been kicked out of a couple.
None of that mattered to Tyson. He was absolutely
fascinated by everything he saw. ‘Whasthat!’ he gasped.
‘The stables for pegasi,’ I said. ‘The winged horses.’
‘Whasthat!’
‘Um … those are the toilets.’
‘Whasthat!’
‘The cabins for the campers. If they don’t know who your
Olympian parent is, they put you in the Hermes cabin – that
brown one over there – until you’re determined. Then, once
they know, they put you in your dad or mom’s group.’
He looked at me in awe. ‘You … have a cabin?
‘Number three.’ I pointed to a low grey building made of
sea stone.
‘You live with friends in the cabin?’
‘No. No, just me.’ I didn’t feel like explaining. The
embarrassing truth: I was the only one who stayed in that
cabin because I wasn’t supposed to be alive. The ‘Big Three’
gods – Zeus, Poseidon and Hades – had made a pact after
World War II not to have any more children with mortals. We
were more powerful than regular half-bloods. We were too
unpredictable. When we got mad we tended to cause
problems … like World War II, for instance. The ‘Big Three’
pact had only been broken twice – once when Zeus sired
Thalia, once when Poseidon sired me. Neither of us
should’ve been born.
Thalia had got herself turned into a pine tree when she
was twelve. Me … well, I was doing my best not to follow her
example. I had nightmares about what Poseidon might turn
me into if I were ever on the verge of death – plankton,
maybe. Or a ﬂoating patch of kelp.
When we got to the Big House, we found Chiron in his
apartment, listening to his favourite 1960s lounge music
361
while he packed his saddlebags. I guess I should mention –
Chiron is a centaur. From the waist up he looks like a regular
middle-aged guy with curly brown hair and a scraggly
beard. From the waist down, he’s a white stallion. He can
pass for human by compacting his lower half into a magic
wheelchair. In fact, he’d passed himself oﬀ as my Latin
teacher during my sixth-grade year. But most of the time, if
the ceilings are high enough, he prefers hanging out in full
centaur form.
As soon as we saw him, Tyson froze. ‘Pony!’ he cried in
total rapture.
Chiron turned, looking oﬀended. ‘I beg your pardon?’
Annabeth ran up and hugged him. ‘Chiron, what’s
happening? You’re not … leaving?’ Her voice was shaky.
Chiron was like a second father to her.
Chiron ruﬄed her hair and gave her a kindly smile. ‘Hello,
child. And Percy, my goodness. You’ve grown over the year!’
I swallowed. ‘Clarisse said you were … you were…’
‘Fired.’ Chiron’s eyes glinted with dark humour. ‘Ah, well,
someone had to take the blame. Lord Zeus was most upset
The tree he’d created from the spirit of his daughter,
poisoned! Mr D had to punish someone.’
‘Besides himself, you mean,’ I growled. Just the thought of
the camp director, Mr D, made me angry.
‘But this is crazy!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Chiron, you couldn’t
have had anything to do with poisoning Thalia’s tree!’
‘Nevertheless,’ Chiron sighed, ‘some in Olympus do not
trust me now, under the circumstances.’
‘What circumstances?’ I asked.
Chiron’s face darkened. He stuﬀed a Latin–English
dictionary into his saddlebag while the Frank Sinatra music
oozed from his boom box.
Tyson was still staring at Chiron in amazement. He
whimpered like he wanted to pat Chiron’s ﬂank but was
afraid to come closer. ‘Pony?’
Chiron sniﬀed. ‘My dear young Cyclops! I am a centaur.’
362
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘What about the tree? What happened?’
He shook his head sadly. ‘The poison used on Thalia’s pine
is something from the Underworld, Percy. Some venom even
I have never seen. It must have come from a monster quite
deep in the pits of Tartarus.’
‘Then we know who’s responsible. Kro–’
‘Do not invoke the titan lord’s name, Percy. Especially not
here, not now.’
‘But last summer he tried to cause a civil war in Olympus!
This has to be his idea. He’d get Luke to do it, that traitor.’
‘Perhaps,’ Chiron said. ‘But I fear I am being held
responsible because I did not prevent it and I cannot cure it.
The tree has only a few weeks of life left unless…’
‘Unless what?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ Chiron said. ‘A foolish thought. The whole valley is
feeling the shock of the poison. The magical borders are
deteriorating. The camp itself is dying. Only one source of
magic would be strong enough to reverse the poison, and it
was lost centuries ago.’
‘What is it?’ I asked. ‘We’ll go ﬁnd it!’
Chiron closed his saddlebag. He pressed the STOP button
on his boom box. Then he turned and rested his hand on my
shoulder, looking me straight in the eyes. ‘Percy, you must
promise me that you will not act rashly. I told your mother I
did not want you to come here at all this summer. It’s much
too dangerous. But now that you are here, stay here. Train
hard. Learn to ﬁght. But do not leave.’
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘I want to do something! I can’t just let the
borders fail. The whole camp will be –’
‘Overrun by monsters,’ Chiron said. ‘Yes, I fear so. But you
must not let yourself be baited into hasty action! This could
be a trap of the titan lord. Remember last summer! He
almost took your life.’
It was true, but still, I wanted to help so badly. I also
wanted to make Kronos pay. I mean, you’d think the titan
lord would’ve learned his lesson aeons ago when he was
363
overthrown by the gods. You’d think getting chopped into a
million pieces and cast into the darkest part of the
Underworld would give him a subtle clue that nobody
wanted him around. But no. Because he was immortal, he
was still alive down there in Tartarus – suﬀering in eternal
pain, hungering to return and take revenge on Olympus. He
couldn’t act on his own, but he was great at twisting the
minds of mortals and even gods to do his dirty work.
The poisoning had to be his doing. Who else would be so
low as to attack Thalia’s tree, the only thing left of a hero
who’d given her life to save her friends?
Annabeth was trying hard not to cry. Chiron brushed a tear
from her cheek. ‘Stay with Percy, child,’ he told her. ‘Keep
him safe. The prophecy – remember it!’
‘I-I will.’
‘Um…’ I said. ‘Would this be the super-dangerous
prophecy that has me in it, but the gods have forbidden you
to tell me about?’
Nobody answered.
‘Right,’ I muttered. ‘Just checking.’
‘Chiron…’ Annabeth said. ‘You told me the gods made you
immortal only so long as you were needed to train heroes. If
they dismiss you from camp –’
‘Swear you will do your best to keep Percy from danger,’
he insisted. ‘Swear upon the River Styx.’
‘I-I swear it upon the River Styx,’ Annabeth said.
Thunder rumbled outside.
‘Very well,’ Chiron said. He seemed to relax just a little.
‘Perhaps my name will be cleared and I shall return. Until
then, I go to visit my wild kinsmen in the Everglades. It’s
possible they know of some cure for the poisoned tree that I
have forgotten. In any event, I will stay in exile until this
matter is resolved … one way or another.’
Annabeth stiﬂed a sob. Chiron patted her shoulder
awkwardly. ‘There, now, child. I must entrust your safety to
Mr D and the new activities director. We must hope … well,
364
perhaps they won’t destroy the camp quite as quickly as I
fear.’
‘Who is this Tantalus guy, anyway?’ I demanded. ‘Where
does he get oﬀ taking your job?’
A conch horn blew across the valley. I hadn’t realized how
late it was. It was time for the campers to assemble for
dinner.
‘Go,’ Chiron said. ‘You will meet him at the pavilion. I will
contact your mother, Percy, and let her know you’re safe.
No doubt she’ll be worried by now. Just remember my
warning! You are in grave danger. Do not think for a moment
that the titan lord has forgotten you!’
With that, he clopped out of the apartment and down the
hall, Tyson calling after him, ‘Pony! Don’t go!’
I realized I’d forgotten to tell Chiron about my dream of
Grover. Now it was too late. The best teacher I’d ever had
was gone, maybe for good.
Tyson started bawling almost as bad as Annabeth.
I tried to tell them that things would be okay, but I didn’t
believe it.
The sun was setting behind the dining pavilion as the
campers came up from their cabins. We stood in the shadow
of a marble column and watched them ﬁle in. Annabeth was
still pretty shaken up, but she promised she’d talk to us
later. Then she went oﬀ to join her siblings from the Athena
cabin – a dozen boys and girls with blonde hair and grey
eyes like hers. Annabeth wasn’t the oldest, but she’d been
at camp more summers than just about anybody. You could
tell that by looking at her camp necklace – one bead for
every summer, and Annabeth had six. No one questioned
her right to lead the line.
Next came Clarisse, leading the Ares cabin. She had one
arm in a sling and a nasty-looking gash on her cheek, but
otherwise her encounter with the bronze bulls didn’t seem
to have fazed her. Someone had taped a piece of paper to
365
her back that said, YOU MOO, GIRL! But nobody in her cabin
was bothering to tell her about it.
After the Ares kids came the Hephaestus cabin – six guys
led by Charles Beckendorf, a big ﬁfteen-year-old African
American kid. He had hands the size of catchers’ mitts and
a face that was hard and squinty from looking into a
blacksmith’s forge all day. He was nice enough once you got
to know him, but no one ever called him Charlie or Chuck or
Charles. Most just called him Beckendorf. Rumour was he
could make anything. Give him a chunk of metal and he
could create a razor-sharp sword or a robotic warrior or a
singing birdbath for your grandmother’s garden. Whatever
you wanted.
The other cabins ﬁled in: Demeter, Apollo, Aphrodite,
Dionysus. Naiads came up from the canoe lake. Dryads
melted out of the trees. From the meadow came a dozen
satyrs, who reminded me painfully of Grover.
I’d always had a soft spot for the satyrs. When they were
at camp, they had to do all kinds of odd jobs for Mr D, the
director, but their most important work was out in the real
world. They were the camp’s seekers. They went undercover
into schools all over the world, looking for potential half-
bloods and escorting them back to camp. That’s how I’d met
Grover. He had been the ﬁrst one to recognize I was a
demigod.
After the satyrs ﬁled in to dinner, the Hermes cabin
brought up the rear. They were always the biggest cabin.
Last summer, it had been led by Luke, the guy who’d fought
with Thalia and Annabeth on top of Half-Blood Hill. For a
while, before Poseidon had claimed me, I’d lodged in the
Hermes cabin. Luke had befriended me … and then he’d
tried to kill me.
Now the Hermes cabin was led by Travis and Connor Stoll.
They weren’t twins, but they looked so much alike it didn’t
matter. I could never remember which one was older. They
were both tall and skinny, with mops of brown hair that
366
hung in their eyes. They wore orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-
shirts untucked over baggy shorts, and they had those elﬁsh
features all Hermes’s kids had: upturned eyebrows,
sarcastic smiles, a gleam in their eyes whenever they
looked at you – like they were about to drop a ﬁrecracker
down your shirt. I’d always thought it was funny that the
god of thieves would have kids with the last name ‘Stoll’,
but the only time I mentioned it to Travis and Connor, they
both stared at me blankly like they didn’t get the joke.
As soon as the last campers had ﬁled in, I led Tyson into
the middle of the pavilion. Conversations faltered. Heads
turned. ‘Who invited that? somebody at the Apollo table
murmured.
I glared in their direction, but I couldn’t ﬁgure out who’d
spoken.
From the head table a familiar voice drawled, ‘Well, well, if
it isn’t Peter Johnson. My millennium is complete.’
I gritted my teeth. ‘Percy Jackson … sir.’
Mr D sipped his Diet Coke. ‘Yes. Well, as you young people
say these days, whatever’.
He was wearing his usual leopard-pattern Hawaiian shirt,
walking shorts and tennis shoes with black socks. With his
pudgy belly and his blotchy red face, he looked like a Las
Vegas tourist who’d stayed up too late in the casinos.
Behind him, a nervous-looking satyr was peeling the skins
oﬀ grapes and handing them to Mr D one at a time.
Mr D’s real name is Dionysus. The god of wine. Zeus
appointed him director of Camp Half-Blood to dry out for a
hundred years – a punishment for chasing some oﬀ-limits
wood nymph.
Next to him, where Chiron usually sat (or stood, in centaur
form), was someone I’d never seen before – a pale, horribly
thin man in a threadbare orange prisoner’s jumpsuit. The
number over his pocket read 0001. He had blue shadows
under his eyes, dirty ﬁngernails and badly cut grey hair, like
his last haircut had been done with a weed whacker. He
367
stared at me; his eyes made me nervous. He looked …
fractured. Angry and frustrated and hungry all at the same
time.
‘This boy,’ Dionysus told him, ‘you need to watch.
Poseidon’s child, you know.’
‘Ah!’ the prisoner said. ‘That one.’
His tone made it obvious that he and Dionysus had
already discussed me at length.
‘I am Tantalus,’ the prisoner said, smiling coldly. ‘On
special assignment here until, well, until my Lord Dionysus
decides otherwise. And you, Perseus Jackson, I do expect
you to refrain from causing any more trouble.’
‘Trouble?’ I demanded.
Dionysus snapped his ﬁngers. A newspaper appeared on
the table – the front page of today’s New York Post. There
was my yearbook picture from Meriwether Prep. It was hard
for me to make out the headline, but I had a pretty good
guess what it said. Something like: Thirteen-Year-Old Lunatic
Torches Gymnasium.
‘Yes, trouble,’ Tantalus said with satisfaction. ‘You caused
plenty of it last summer, I understand.’
I was too mad to speak. Like it was my fault the gods had
almost got into a civil war?
A satyr inched forward nervously and set a plate of
barbecued meat in front of Tantalus. The new activities
director licked his lips. He looked at his empty goblet and
said, ‘Root beer. Barq’s special stock. 1967.’
The glass ﬁlled itself with foamy soda. Tantalus stretched
out his hand hesitantly, as if he were afraid the goblet was
hot.
‘Go on, then, old fellow,’ Dionysus said, a strange sparkle
in his eyes. ‘Perhaps now it will work.’
Tantalus grabbed for the glass, but it scooted away before
he could touch it. A few drops of root beer spilled, and
Tantalus tried to dab them up with his ﬁngers, but the drops
rolled away like quicksilver before he could touch them. He
368
growled and turned towards the plate of meat. He picked up
a fork and tried to stab a piece of brisket, but the plate
skittered down the table and ﬂew oﬀ the end, straight into
the coals of the brazier.
‘Blast!’ Tantalus muttered.
‘Ah, well,’ Dionysus said, his voice dripping with false
sympathy. ‘Perhaps a few more days. Believe me, old chap,
working at this camp will be torture enough. I’m sure your
old curse will fade eventually.’
‘Eventually,’ muttered Tantalus, staring at Dionysus’s Diet
Coke. ‘Do you have any idea how dry one’s throat gets after
three thousand years?’
‘You’re that spirit from the Fields of Punishment,’ I said.
‘The one who stands in the lake with the fruit tree hanging
over you, but you can’t eat or drink.’
Tantalus sneered at me. ‘A real scholar, aren’t you, boy?’
‘You must’ve done something really horrible when you
were alive,’ I said, mildly impressed. ‘What was it?’
Tantalus’s eyes narrowed. Behind him, the satyrs were
shaking their heads vigorously, trying to warn me.
‘I’ll be watching you, Percy Jackson,’ Tantalus said. ‘I don’t
want any problems at my camp.’
‘Your camp has problems already … sir.’
‘Oh, go sit down, Johnson,’ Dionysus sighed. ‘I believe that
table over there is yours – the one where no one else ever
wants to sit.’
My face was burning, but I knew better than to talk back.
Dionysus was an overgrown brat, but he was an immortal,
superpowerful overgrown brat. I said, ‘Come on, Tyson.’
‘Oh, no,’ Tantalus said. ‘The monster stays here. We must
decide what to do with it.’
‘Him’, I snapped. ‘His name is Tyson.’
The new activities director raised an eyebrow.
‘Tyson saved the camp,’ I insisted. ‘He pounded those
bronze bulls. Otherwise they would’ve burned down this
whole place.’
369
‘Yes,’ Tantalus sighed, ‘and what a pity that would’ve
been.’
Dionysus snickered.
‘Leave us,’ Tantalus ordered, ‘while we decide this
creature’s fate.’
Tyson looked at me with fear in his one big eye, but I knew
I couldn’t disobey a direct order from the camp directors.
Not openly, anyway.
‘I’ll be right over here, big guy,’ I promised. ‘Don’t worry.
We’ll ﬁnd you a good place to sleep tonight.’
Tyson nodded. ‘I believe you. You are my friend.’
Which made me feel a whole lot guiltier.
I trudged over to the Poseidon table and slumped onto the
bench. A wood nymph brought me a plate of Olympian
olive-and-pepperoni pizza, but I wasn’t hungry. I’d been
almost killed twice today. I’d managed to end my school
year with a complete disaster. Camp Half-Blood was in
serious trouble and Chiron had told me not to do anything
about it.
I didn’t feel very thankful, but I took my dinner, as was
customary, up to the bronze brazier and scraped part of it
into the ﬂames.
‘Poseidon,’ I murmured, ‘accept my oﬀering.’
And send me some help while you’re at it, I prayed
silently. Please.
The smoke from the burning pizza changed into
something fragrant – the smell of a clean sea breeze with
wildﬂowers mixed in – but I had no idea if that meant my
father was really listening.
I went back to my seat. I didn’t think things could get
much worse. But then Tantalus had one of the satyrs blow
the conch horn to get our attention for announcements.
* * *
 
370
‘Yes, well,’ Tantalus said, once the talking had died down.
‘Another ﬁne meal! Or so I am told.’ As he spoke, he inched
his hand towards his reﬁlled dinner plate, as if maybe the
food wouldn’t notice what he was doing, but it did. It shot
away down the table as soon as he got within twenty
centimetres.
‘And here on my ﬁrst day of authority,’ he continued, ‘I’d
like to say what a pleasant form of punishment it is to be
here. Over the course of the summer, I hope to torture, er,
interact with each and every one of you children. You all
look good enough to eat.’
Dionysus clapped politely, leading to some half-hearted
applause from the satyrs. Tyson was still standing at the
head table, looking uncomfortable, but every time he tried
to scoot out of the limelight, Tantalus pulled him back.
‘And now some changes!’ Tantalus gave the campers a
crooked smile. ‘We are reinstituting the chariot races!’
Murmuring broke out at all the tables – excitement, fear,
disbelief.
‘Now I know,’ Tantalus continued, raising his voice, ‘that
these races were discontinued some years ago due to, ah,
technical problems.’
‘Three deaths and twenty-six mutilations,’ someone at the
Apollo table called.
‘Yes, yes!’ Tantalus said. ‘But I know that you will all join
me in welcoming the return of this camp tradition. Golden
laurels will go to the winning charioteers each month. Teams
may register in the morning! The ﬁrst race will be held in
three days’ time. We will release you from most of your
regular activities to prepare your chariots and choose your
horses. Oh, and did I mention, the victorious team’s cabin
will have no chores for the month in which they win?’
An explosion of excited conversation – no KP for a whole
month? No stable cleaning? Was he serious?
Then the last person I expected to object did so.
371
‘But, sir!’ Clarisse said. She looked nervous, but she stood
up to speak from the Ares table. Some of the campers
snickered when they saw the YOU MOO, GIRL! sign on her
back. ‘What about patrol duty? I mean, if we drop
everything to ready our chariots –’
‘Ah, the hero of the day,’ Tantalus exclaimed. ‘Brave
Clarisse, who single-handedly bested the bronze bulls!’
Clarisse blinked, then blushed. ‘Um, I didn’t –’
‘And modest, too.’ Tantalus grinned. ‘Not to worry, my
dear! This is a summer camp. We are here to enjoy
ourselves, yes?’
‘But the tree –’
‘And now,’ Tantalus said, as several of Clarisse’s cabin
mates pulled her back into her seat, ‘before we proceed to
the campﬁre and sing-along, one slight housekeeping issue.
Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase have seen ﬁt, for some
reason, to bring this here.’ Tantalus waved a hand towards
Tyson.
Uneasy murmuring spread among the campers. A lot of
sideways looks at me. I wanted to kill Tantalus.
‘Now, of course,’ he said, ‘Cyclopes have a reputation for
being bloodthirsty monsters with a very small brain
capacity. Under normal circumstances, I would release this
beast into the woods and have you hunt it down with
torches and pointed sticks. But who knows? Perhaps this
Cyclops is not as horrible as most of its brethren. Until it
proves worthy of destruction, we need a place to keep it!
I’ve thought about the stables, but that will make the horses
nervous. Hermes’s cabin, possibly?’
Silence at the Hermes table. Travis and Connor Stoll
developed a sudden interest in the tablecloth. I couldn’t
blame them. The Hermes cabin was always full to bursting.
There was no way they could take in a two-metre Cyclops.
‘Come now,’ Tantalus chided. ‘The monster may be able to
do some menial chores. Any suggestions as to where such a
beast should be kennelled?’
372
Suddenly everybody gasped.
Tantalus scooted away from Tyson in surprise. All I could
do was stare in disbelief at the brilliant green light that was
about to change my life – a dazzling holographic image that
had appeared above Tyson’s head.
With a sickening twist in my stomach, I remembered what
Annabeth had said about Cyclopes, They’re the children of
nature spirits and gods … Well, one god in particular, usually
…
Swirling over Tyson was a glowing green trident – the
same symbol that had appeared above me the day Poseidon
had claimed me as his son.
There was a moment of awed silence.
Being claimed was a rare event. Some campers waited in
vain for it their whole lives. When I’d been claimed by
Poseidon last summer, everyone had reverently knelt. But
now, they followed Tantalus’s lead, and Tantalus roared with
laughter. ‘Well! I think we know where to put the beast now.
By the gods, I can see the family resemblance!’
Everybody laughed except Annabeth and a few of my
other friends.
Tyson didn’t seem to notice. He was too mystiﬁed, trying
to swat the glowing trident that was now fading over his
head. He was too innocent to understand how much they
were making fun of him, how cruel people were.
But I got it.
I had a new cabin mate. I had a monster for a half-brother.
373
6    Demon Pigeons Attack
 
The next few days were torture, just like Tantalus wanted.
First there was Tyson moving into the Poseidon cabin,
giggling to himself every ﬁfteen seconds and saying, ‘Percy
is my brother?’ like he’d just won the lottery.
‘Aw, Tyson,’ I’d say. ‘It’s not that simple.’
But there was no explaining it to him. He was in heaven.
And me … as much as I liked the big guy, I couldn’t help
feeling embarrassed. Ashamed. There, I said it.
My father, the all-powerful Poseidon, had got moony-eyed
for some nature spirit, and Tyson had been the result. I
mean, I’d read the myths about Cyclopes. I even
remembered that they were often Poseidon’s children. But
I’d never really processed that this made them my … family.
Until I had Tyson living with me in the next bunk.
And then there were the comments from the other
campers. Suddenly, I wasn’t Percy Jackson, the cool guy
who’d retrieved Zeus’s lightning bolt last summer. Now I
was Percy Jackson, the poor schmuck with the ugly monster
for a brother.
‘He’s not my real brother!’ I protested whenever Tyson
wasn’t around. ‘He’s more like a half-brother on the
monstrous side of the family. Like … a half-brother twice
removed, or something.’
Nobody bought it.
I admit – I was angry at my dad. I felt like being his son
was now a joke.
Annabeth tried to make me feel better. She suggested we
team up for the chariot race to take our minds oﬀ our
374
problems. Don’t get me wrong – we both hated Tantalus and
we were worried sick about camp – but we didn’t know what
to do about it. Until we could come up with some brilliant
plan to save Thalia’s tree, we ﬁgured we might as well go
along with the races. After all, Annabeth’s mom, Athena,
had invented the chariot, and my dad had created horses.
Together we would own that track.
One morning Annabeth and I were sitting by the canoe lake
sketching 
chariot 
designs 
when 
some 
jokers 
from
Aphrodite’s cabin walked by and asked me if I needed to
borrow some eyeliner for my eye … ‘Oh, sorry, eyes.’
As they walked away laughing, Annabeth grumbled, ‘Just
ignore them, Percy. It isn’t your fault you have a monster for
a brother.’
‘He’s not my brother!’ I snapped. ‘And he’s not a monster,
either!’
Annabeth raised her eyebrows. ‘Hey, don’t get mad at
me! And technically, he is a monster.’
‘Well, you gave him permission to enter the camp.’
‘Because it was the only way to save your life! I mean …
I’m sorry, Percy, I didn’t expect Poseidon to claim him.
Cyclopes are the most deceitful, treacherous –’
‘He is not! What have you got against Cyclopes, anyway?’
Annabeth’s ears turned pink. I got the feeling there was
something she wasn’t telling me – something bad.
‘Just forget it,’ she said. ‘Now, the axle for this chariot –’
‘You’re treating him like he’s this horrible thing,’ I said. ‘He
saved my life.’
Annabeth threw down her pencil and stood. ‘Then maybe
you should design a chariot with him’.
‘Maybe I should.’
‘Fine!’
‘Fine!’
She stormed oﬀ and left me feeling even worse than
before.
375
The next couple of days, I tried to keep my mind oﬀ my
problems.
Silena Beauregard, one of the nicer girls from Aphrodite’s
cabin, gave me my ﬁrst riding lesson on a pegasus. She
explained that there was only one immortal winged horse
named Pegasus, who still wandered free somewhere in the
skies, but over the aeons he’d sired a lot of children, none
quite so fast or heroic, but all named after the ﬁrst and
greatest.
Being the son of the sea god, I never liked going into the
air. My dad had this rivalry with Zeus, so I tried to stay out
of the lord of the sky’s domain as much as possible. But
riding a winged horse felt diﬀerent. It didn’t make me nearly
as nervous as being in an aeroplane. Maybe that was
because my dad had created horses out of sea foam, so the
pegasi were sort of … neutral territory. I could understand
their thoughts. I wasn’t surprised when my pegasus went
galloping over the treetops or chased a ﬂock of seagulls into
a cloud.
The problem was that Tyson wanted to ride the ‘chicken
ponies’, too, but the pegasi got skittish whenever he
approached. I told them telepathically that Tyson wouldn’t
hurt them, but they didn’t seem to believe me. That made
Tyson cry.
The only person at camp who had no problem with Tyson
was Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin. The blacksmith
god had always worked with Cyclopes in his forges, so
Beckendorf took Tyson down to the armoury to teach him
metalworking. He said he’d have Tyson crafting magic items
like a master in no time.
After lunch, I worked out in the arena with Apollo’s cabin.
Swordplay had always been my strength. People said I was
better at it than any camper in the last hundred years,
except maybe Luke. People always compared me to Luke.
I thrashed the Apollo guys easily. I should’ve been testing
myself against the Ares and Athena cabins, since they had
376
the best sword ﬁghters, but I didn’t get along with Clarisse
and her siblings, and after my argument with Annabeth, I
just didn’t want to see her.
I went to archery class, even though I was terrible at it,
and it wasn’t the same without Chiron teaching. In arts and
crafts, I started a marble bust of Poseidon, but it started
looking like Sylvester Stallone, so I ditched it. I scaled the
climbing wall in full lava-and-earthquake mode. And in the
evenings, I did border patrol. Even though Tantalus had
insisted we forget trying to protect the camp, some of the
campers had quietly kept it up, working out a schedule
during our free times.
I sat at the top of Half-Blood Hill and watched the dryads
come and go, singing to the dying pine tree. Satyrs brought
their reed pipes and played nature magic songs, and for a
while the pine needles seemed to get fuller. The ﬂowers on
the hill smelled a little sweeter and the grass looked
greener. But as soon as the music stopped, the sickness
crept back into the air. The whole hill seemed to be infected,
dying from the poison that had sunk into the tree’s roots.
The longer I sat there, the angrier I got.
Luke had done this. I remembered his sly smile, the
dragon-claw scar across his face. He’d pretended to be my
friend, and the whole time he’d been Kronos’s number-one
servant.
I opened the palm of my hand. The scar Luke had given
me last summer was fading, but I could still see it – a white
asterisk-shaped wound where his pit scorpion had stung me.
I thought about what Luke had told me right before he’d
tried to kill me: Goodbye, Percy. There is a new Golden Age
coming. You won’t be part of it.
At night, I had more dreams of Grover. Sometimes, I just
heard snatches of his voice. Once, I heard him say, It’s here.
Another time, He likes sheep.
377
I thought about telling Annabeth about my dreams, but I
would’ve felt stupid. I mean, He likes sheep? She would’ve
thought I was crazy.
The night before the race, Tyson and I ﬁnished our chariot.
It was wicked cool. Tyson had made the metal parts in the
armoury’s forges. I’d sanded the wood and put the carriage
together. It was blue and white, with wave designs on the
sides and a trident painted on the front. After all that work,
it seemed only fair that Tyson would ride shotgun with me,
though I knew the horses wouldn’t like it, and Tyson’s extra
weight would slow us down.
As we were turning in for bed, Tyson said, ‘You are mad?’
I realized I’d been scowling. ‘Nah. I’m not mad.’
He lay down in his bunk and was quiet in the dark. His
body was way too long for his bed. When he pulled up the
covers, his feet stuck out the bottom. ‘I am a monster.’
‘Don’t say that.’
‘It is okay. I will be a good monster. Then you will not have
to be mad.’
I didn’t know what to say. I stared at the ceiling and felt
like I was dying slowly, right along with Thalia’s tree.
‘It’s just … I never had a half-brother before.’ I tried to
keep my voice from cracking. ‘It’s really diﬀerent for me.
And I’m worried about the camp. And another friend of
mine, Grover … he might be in trouble. I keep feeling like I
should be doing something to help, but I don’t know what.’
Tyson said nothing.
‘I’m sorry,’ I told him. ‘It’s not your fault. I’m mad at
Poseidon. I feel like he’s trying to embarrass me, like he’s
trying to compare us or something, and I don’t understand
why.’
I heard a deep rumbling sound. Tyson was snoring.
I sighed. ‘Goodnight, big guy.’
And I closed my eyes, too.
* * *
378
 
In my dream, Grover was wearing a wedding dress.
It didn’t ﬁt him very well. The gown was too long and the
hem was caked with dried mud. The neckline kept falling oﬀ
his shoulders. A tattered veil covered his face.
He was standing in a dank cave, lit only by torches. There
was a cot in one corner and an old-fashioned loom in the
other, a length of white cloth half woven on the frame. And
he was staring right at me, like I was a TV programme he’d
been waiting for. ‘Thank the gods!’ he yelped. ‘Can you hear
me?’
My dream-self was slow to respond. I was still looking
around, taking in the stalactite ceiling, the stench of sheep
and goats, the growling and grumbling and bleating sounds
that seemed to echo from behind a refrigerator-sized
boulder, which was blocking the room’s only exit, as if there
were a much larger cavern beyond it.
‘Percy?’ Grover said. ‘Please, I don’t have the strength to
project any better. You have to hear me!’
‘I hear you,’ I said. ‘Grover, what’s going on?’
From behind the boulder, a monstrous voice yelled,
‘Honeypie! Are you done yet?’
Grover ﬂinched. He called out in falsetto, ‘Not quite,
dearest! A few more days!’
‘Bah! Hasn’t it been two weeks yet?’
‘N-no, dearest. Just ﬁve days. That leaves twelve more to
go.’
The monster was silent, maybe trying to do the maths. He
must’ve been worse at arithmetic than I was, because he
said, ‘All right, but hurry! I want to SEEEEE under that veil,
heh-heh-heh.’
Grover turned back to me. ‘You have to help me! No time!
I’m stuck in this cave. On an island in the sea.’
‘Where?’
‘I don’t know exactly! I went to Florida and turned left.’
‘What? How did you –’
379
‘It’s a trap!’ Grover said. ‘It’s the reason no satyr has ever
returned from this quest. He’s a shepherd, Percy! And he
has it. Its nature magic is so powerful it smells just like the
great god Pan! The satyrs come here thinking they’ve found
Pan, and they get trapped and eaten by Polyphemus!’
‘Poly-who?’
‘The Cyclops!’ Grover said, exasperated. ‘I almost got
away. I made it all the way to St Augustine.’
‘But he followed you,’ I said, remembering my ﬁrst dream.
‘And trapped you in a bridal boutique.’
‘That’s right,’ Grover said. ‘My ﬁrst empathy link must’ve
worked then. Look, this bridal dress is the only thing keeping
me alive. He thinks I smell good, but I told him it was just
goat-scented perfume. Thank goodness he can’t see very
well. His eye is still half blind from the last time somebody
poked it out. But soon he’ll realize what I am. He’s only
giving me two weeks to ﬁnish the bridal train, and he’s
getting impatient!’
‘Wait a minute. This Cyclops thinks you’re –’
‘Yes!’ Grover wailed. ‘He thinks I’m a lady Cyclops and he
wants to marry me!’
Under diﬀerent circumstances, I might’ve busted out
laughing, but Grover’s voice was deadly serious. He was
shaking with fear.
‘I’ll come rescue you,’ I promised. ‘Where are you?’
‘The Sea of Monsters, of course!’
‘The sea of what?’
‘I told you! I don’t know exactly where! And look, Percy …
um, I’m really sorry about this, but this empathy link … well,
I had no choice. Our emotions are connected now. If I die…’
‘Don’t tell me, I’ll die, too.’
‘Oh, well, perhaps not. You might live for years in a
vegetative state. But, uh, it would be a lot better if you got
me out of here.’
‘Honeypie!’ the monster bellowed. ‘Dinnertime! Yummy
yummy sheep meat!’
380
Grover whimpered. ‘I have to go. Hurry!’
‘Wait! You said “it” was here. What?’
But Grover’s voice was already growing fainter. ‘Sweet
dreams. Don’t let me die!’
The dream faded and I woke with a start. It was early
morning. Tyson was staring down at me, his one big brown
eye full of concern.
‘Are you okay?’ he asked.
His voice sent a chill down my back, because he sounded
almost exactly like the monster I’d heard in my dream.
The morning of the race was hot and humid. Fog lay low on
the ground like sauna steam. Millions of birds were roosting
in the trees – fat grey-and-white pigeons, except they didn’t
coo like regular pigeons. They made this annoying metallic
screeching sound that reminded me of submarine radar.
The racetrack had been built in a grassy ﬁeld between the
archery range and the woods. Hephaestus’s cabin had used
the bronze bulls, which were completely tame since they’d
had their heads smashed in, to plough an oval track in a
matter of minutes.
There were rows of stone steps for the spectators –
Tantalus, the satyrs, a few dryads and all of the campers
who weren’t participating. Mr D didn’t show. He never got
up before ten o’clock.
‘Right!’ Tantalus announced as the teams began to
assemble. A naiad had brought him a big platter of pastries,
and as Tantalus spoke his right hand chased a chocolate
eclair across the judge’s table. ‘You all know the rules. A
quarter-mile track. Twice around to win. Two horses per
chariot. Each team will consist of a driver and a ﬁghter.
Weapons are allowed. Dirty tricks are expected. But try not
to kill anybody!’ Tantalus smiled at us like we were all
naughty 
children. 
‘Any 
killing 
will 
result 
in 
harsh
punishment. No s’mores at the campﬁre for a week! Now
ready your chariots!’
381
Beckendorf led the Hephaestus team onto the track. They
had a sweet ride made of bronze and iron – even the horses,
which were magical automatons like the Colchis bulls. I had
no doubt that their chariot had all kinds of mechanical traps
and more fancy options than a fully loaded Maserati.
The Ares chariot was blood-red, and pulled by two grisly
horse skeletons. Clarisse climbed aboard with a batch of
javelins, spiked balls, caltrops and a bunch of other nasty
toys.
Apollo’s chariot was trim and graceful and completely
gold, pulled by two beautiful palominos. Their ﬁghter was
armed with a bow, though he had promised not to shoot
regular pointed arrows at the opposing drivers.
Hermes’s chariot was green and kind of old-looking, as if it
hadn’t been out of the garage in years. It didn’t look like
anything special, but it was manned by the Stoll brothers,
and I shuddered to think what dirty tricks they’d schemed
up.
That left two chariots: one driven by Annabeth, and the
other by me.
Before the race began, I tried to approach Annabeth and
tell her about my dream.
She perked up when I mentioned Grover, but when I told
her what he’d said, she seemed to get distant again,
suspicious.
‘You’re trying to distract me,’ she decided.
‘What? No, I’m not!’
‘Oh, right! Like Grover would just happen to stumble
across the one thing that could save the camp.’
‘What do you mean?’
She rolled her eyes. ‘Go back to your chariot, Percy.’
‘I’m not making this up. He’s in trouble, Annabeth.’
She hesitated. I could tell she was trying to decide
whether or not to trust me. Despite our occasional ﬁghts,
we’d been through a lot together. And I knew she would
never want anything bad to happen to Grover.
382
‘Percy, an empathy link is so hard to do. I mean, it’s more
likely you really were dreaming.’
‘The Oracle,’ I said. ‘We could consult the Oracle.’
Annabeth frowned.
Last summer, before my quest, I’d visited the strange
spirit that lived in the Big House attic and it had given me a
prophecy that came true in ways I’d never expected. The
experience had freaked me out for months. Annabeth knew
I’d never suggest going back there if I wasn’t completely
serious.
Before she could answer, the conch horn sounded.
‘Charioteers!’ Tantalus called. ‘To your mark!’
‘We’ll talk later,’ Annabeth told me, ‘after I win.’
As I was walking back to my own chariot, I noticed how
many more pigeons were in the trees now – screeching like
crazy, making the whole forest rustle. Nobody else seemed
to be paying them much attention, but they made me
nervous. Their beaks glinted strangely. Their eyes seemed
shinier than regular birds.
Tyson was having trouble getting our horses under control.
I had to talk to them a long time before they would settle
down.
He’s a monster, lord! they complained to me.
He’s a son of Poseidon, I told them. Just like … well, just
like me.
No! they insisted. Monster! Horse-eater! Not trusted!
I’ll give you sugar cubes at the end of the race, I said.
Sugar cubes?
Very big sugar cubes. And apples. Did I mention the
apples?
Finally they agreed to let me harness them.
Now, if you’ve never seen a Greek chariot, it’s built for
speed, not safety or comfort. It’s basically a wooden basket,
open at the back, mounted on an axle between two wheels.
The driver stands up the whole time, and you can feel every
bump in the road. The carriage is made of such light wood
383
that if you wipe out making the hairpin turns at either end of
the track, you’ll probably tip over and crush both the chariot
and yourself. It’s an even better rush than skateboarding.
I took the reins and manoeuvred the chariot to the
starting line. I gave Tyson a three-metre pole and told him
that his job was to push the other chariots away if they got
too close, and to deﬂect anything they might try to throw at
us.
‘No hitting ponies with the stick,’ he insisted.
‘No,’ I agreed. ‘Or people, either, if you can help it. We’re
going to run a clean race. Just keep the distractions away
and let me concentrate on driving.’
‘We will win!’ He beamed.
We are so going to lose, I thought to myself, but I had to
try. I wanted to show the others … well, I wasn’t sure what,
exactly. That Tyson wasn’t such a bad guy? That I wasn’t
ashamed of being seen with him in public? Maybe that they
hadn’t hurt me with all their jokes and name-calling?
As the chariots lined up, more shiny-eyed pigeons
gathered in the woods. They were screeching so loudly the
campers in the stands were starting to take notice, glancing
nervously at the trees, which shivered under the weight of
the birds. Tantalus didn’t look concerned, but he did have to
speak up to be heard over the noise.
‘Charioteers!’ he shouted. ‘Attend your mark!’
He waved his hand and the starting signal dropped. The
chariots roared to life. Hooves thundered against the dirt.
The crowd cheered.
Almost immediately there was a loud nasty crack! I looked
back in time to see the Apollo chariot ﬂip over. The Hermes
chariot had rammed into it – maybe by mistake, maybe not.
The riders were thrown free, but their panicked horses
dragged the golden chariot diagonally across the track. The
Hermes team, Travis and Connor Stoll, were laughing at
their good luck, but not for long. The Apollo horses crashed
384
into theirs, and the Hermes chariot ﬂipped too, leaving a
pile of broken wood and four rearing horses in the dust.
Two chariots down in the ﬁrst six metres. I loved this
sport.
I turned my attention back to the front. We were making
good time, pulling ahead of Ares, but Annabeth’s chariot
was way ahead of us. She was already making her turn
around the ﬁrst post, her javelin man grinning and waving at
us, shouting, ‘See ya!’
The Hephaestus chariot was starting to gain on us, too.
Beckendorf pressed a button, and a panel slid open on the
side of his chariot.
‘Sorry, Percy!’ he yelled. Three sets of balls and chains
shot straight towards our wheels. They would’ve wrecked us
completely if Tyson hadn’t whacked them aside with a quick
swipe of his pole. He gave the Hephaestus chariot a good
shove and sent them skittering sideways while we pulled
ahead.
‘Nice work, Tyson!’ I yelled.
‘Birds!’ he cried.
‘What?’
We were whipping along so fast it was hard to hear or see
anything, but Tyson pointed towards the woods and I saw
what he was worried about. The pigeons had risen from the
trees. They were spiralling like a huge tornado, heading
towards the track.
No big deal, I told myself. They’re just pigeons.
I tried to concentrate on the race.
We made our ﬁrst turn, the wheels creaking under us, the
chariot threatening to tip, but we were now only three
metres behind Annabeth. If I could just get a little closer,
Tyson could use his pole …
Annabeth’s ﬁghter wasn’t smiling now. He pulled a javelin
from his collection and took aim at me. He was about to
throw when we heard the screaming.
385
The pigeons were swarming – thousands of them dive-
bombing the spectators in the stands, attacking the other
chariots. Beckendorf was mobbed. His ﬁghter tried to bat
the birds away but he couldn’t see anything. The chariot
veered oﬀ course and ploughed through the strawberry
ﬁelds, the mechanical horses steaming.
In the Ares chariot, Clarisse barked an order to her ﬁghter,
who quickly threw a screen of camouﬂage netting over their
basket. The birds swarmed around it, pecking and clawing at
the ﬁghter’s hands as he tried to hold up the net, but
Clarisse just gritted her teeth and kept driving. Her skeletal
horses seemed immune to the distraction. The pigeons
pecked uselessly at their empty eye sockets and ﬂew
through their rib cages, but the stallions kept right on
running.
The spectators weren’t so lucky. The birds were slashing
at any bit of exposed ﬂesh, driving everyone into a panic.
Now that the birds were closer, it was clear they weren’t
normal pigeons. Their eyes were beady and evil-looking.
Their beaks were made of bronze, and, judging from the
yelps of the campers, they must’ve been razor sharp.
‘Stymphalian birds!’ Annabeth yelled. She slowed down
and pulled her chariot alongside mine. ‘They’ll strip
everyone to bones if we don’t drive them away!’
‘Tyson,’ I said, ‘we’re turning around!’
‘Going the wrong way?’ he asked.
‘Always,’ I grumbled, but I steered the chariot towards the
stands.
Annabeth rode right next to me. She shouted, ‘Heroes, to
arms!’ But I wasn’t sure anyone could hear her over the
screeching of the birds and the general chaos.
I held my reins in one hand and managed to draw Riptide
as a wave of birds dived at my face, their metal beaks
snapping. I slashed them out of the air and they exploded
into dust and feathers, but there were still millions of them
386
left. One nailed me in the back end and I almost jumped
straight out of the chariot.
Annabeth wasn’t having much better luck. The closer we
got to the stands, the thicker the cloud of birds became.
Some of the spectators were trying to ﬁght back. The
Athena campers were calling for shields. The archers from
Apollo’s cabin brought out their bows and arrows, ready to
slay the menace, but with so many campers mixed in with
the birds, it wasn’t safe to shoot.
‘Too many!’ I yelled to Annabeth. ‘How do you get rid of
them?’
She stabbed at a pigeon with her knife. ‘Heracles used
noise! Brass bells! He scared them away with the most
horrible sound he could –’
Her eyes got wide. ‘Percy … Chiron’s collection!’
I understood instantly. ‘You think it’ll work?’
She handed her ﬁghter the reins and leaped from her
chariot into mine like it was the easiest thing in the world.
‘To the Big House! It’s our only chance!’
Clarisse had just pulled across the ﬁnish line, completely
unopposed, and seemed to notice for the ﬁrst time how
serious the bird problem was.
When she saw us driving away, she yelled, ‘You’re
running? The ﬁght is here, cowards!’ She drew her sword
and charged for the stands.
I urged our horses into a gallop. The chariot rumbled
through the strawberry ﬁelds, across the volleyball pit, and
lurched to a halt in front of the Big House. Annabeth and I
ran inside, tearing down the hallway to Chiron’s apartment.
His boom box was still on his nightstand. So were his
favourite CDs. I grabbed the most repulsive one I could ﬁnd,
Annabeth snatched the boom box, and together we ran
back outside.
Down at the track, the chariots were in ﬂames. Wounded
campers ran in every direction, with birds shredding their
clothes and pulling out their hair, while Tantalus chased
387
breakfast pastries around the stands, every once in a while
yelling, ‘Everything’s under control! Not to worry!’
We pulled up to the ﬁnish line. Annabeth got the boom
box ready. I prayed the batteries weren’t dead.
I pressed PLAY and started up Chiron’s favourite – the All-
Time Greatest Hits of Dean Martin. Suddenly the air was
ﬁlled with violins and a bunch of guys moaning in Italian.
The demon pigeons went nuts. They started ﬂying in
circles, running into each other like they wanted to bash
their own brains out. Then they abandoned the track
altogether and ﬂew skywards in a huge dark wave.
‘Now!’ shouted Annabeth. ‘Archers!’
With clear targets, Apollo’s archers had ﬂawless aim. Most
of them could nock ﬁve or six arrows at once. Within
minutes, the ground was littered with dead bronze-beaked
pigeons, and the survivors were a distant trail of smoke on
the horizon.
The camp was saved, but the wreckage wasn’t pretty.
Most of the chariots had been completely destroyed. Almost
everyone was wounded, bleeding from multiple bird pecks.
The kids from Aphrodite’s cabin were screaming because
their hairdos had been ruined and their clothes pooped on.
‘Bravo!’ Tantalus said, but he wasn’t looking at me or
Annabeth. ‘We have our ﬁrst winner!’ He walked to the
ﬁnish line and awarded the golden laurels for the race to a
stunned-looking Clarisse.
Then he turned and smiled at me. And now to punish the
troublemakers who disrupted this race.’
388
7    I Accept Gifts from a Stranger
 
The way Tantalus saw it, the Stymphalian birds had simply
been minding their own business in the woods and would
not have attacked if Annabeth, Tyson and I hadn’t disturbed
them with our bad chariot driving.
This was so completely unfair, I told Tantalus to go chase
a doughnut, which didn’t help his mood. He sentenced us to
kitchen patrol – scrubbing pots and platters all afternoon in
the underground kitchen with the cleaning harpies. The
harpies washed with lava instead of water, to get that extra-
clean sparkle and kill ninety-nine point nine percent of all
germs, so Annabeth and I had to wear asbestos gloves and
aprons.
Tyson didn’t mind. He plunged his bare hands right in and
started scrubbing, but Annabeth and I had to suﬀer through
hours of hot, dangerous work, especially since there were
tons of extra plates. Tantalus had ordered a special
luncheon banquet to celebrate Clarisse’s chariot victory – a
full-course meal featuring country-fried Stymphalian death-
bird.
The only good thing about our punishment was that it
gave Annabeth and me a common enemy and lots of time
to talk. After listening to my dream about Grover again, she
looked like she might be starting to believe me.
‘If he’s really found it,’ she murmured, ‘and if we could
retrieve it –’
‘Hold on,’ I said. ‘You act like this … whatever-it-is Grover
found is the only thing in the world that could save the
camp. What is it?’
389
‘I’ll give you a hint. What do you get when you skin a
ram?’
‘Messy?’
She sighed. ‘A ﬂeece. The coat of a ram is called a ﬂeece.
And if that ram happens to have golden wool –’
‘The Golden Fleece. Are you serious?’
Annabeth scraped a plateful of death-bird bones into the
lava. ‘Percy, remember the Grey Sisters? They said they
knew the location of the thing you seek. And they
mentioned Jason. Three thousand years ago, they told him
how to ﬁnd the Golden Fleece. You do know the story of
Jason and the Argonauts?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘That old movie with the clay skeletons.’
Annabeth rolled her eyes. ‘Oh my gods, Percy! You are so
hopeless.’
‘What?’ I demanded.
‘Just listen. The real story of the Fleece: there were these
two children of Zeus, Cadmus and Europa, okay? They were
about to get oﬀered up as human sacriﬁces, when they
prayed to Zeus to save them. So Zeus sent this magical
ﬂying ram with golden wool, which picked them up in
Greece and carried them all the way to Colchis in Asia Minor.
Well, actually it carried Cadmus. Europa fell oﬀ and died
along the way, but that’s not important.’
‘It was probably important to her.’
‘The point is, when Cadmus got to Colchis, he sacriﬁced
the golden ram to the gods and hung the Fleece in a tree in
the middle of the kingdom. The Fleece brought prosperity to
the land. Animals stopped getting sick. Plants grew better.
Farmers had bumper crops. Plagues never visited. That’s
why Jason wanted the Fleece. It can revitalize any land
where it’s placed. It cures sickness, strengthens nature,
cleans up pollution –’
‘It could cure Thalia’s tree.’
Annabeth nodded. And it would totally strengthen the
borders of Camp Half-Blood. But Percy, the Fleece has been
390
missing for centuries. Tons of heroes have searched for it
with no luck.’
‘But Grover found it,’ I said. ‘He went looking for Pan and
he found the Fleece instead because they both radiate
nature magic. It makes sense, Annabeth. We can rescue him
and save the camp at the same time. It’s perfect!’
Annabeth hesitated. ‘A little too perfect, don’t you think?
What if it’s a trap?’
I remembered last summer, how Kronos had manipulated
our quest. He’d almost fooled us into helping him start a war
that would’ve destroyed Western Civilization.
‘What choice do we have?’ I asked. ‘Are you going to help
me rescue Grover or not?’
She glanced at Tyson, who’d lost interest in our
conversation and was happily making toy boats out of cups
and spoons in the lava.
‘Percy,’ she said under her breath, ‘we’ll have to ﬁght a
Cyclops. Polyphemus, the worst of the Cyclopes. And there’s
only one place his island could be. The Sea of Monsters.’
‘Where’s that?’
She stared at me like she thought I was playing dumb.
‘The Sea of Monsters. The same sea Odysseus sailed
through, and Jason, and Aeneas and all the others.’
‘You mean the Mediterranean?’
‘No. Well, yes … but no.’
‘Another straight answer. Thanks.’
‘Look, Percy, the Sea of Monsters is the sea all heroes sail
through on their adventures. It used to be in the
Mediterranean, yes. But like everything else, it shifts
locations as the West’s centre of power shifts.’
‘Like Mount Olympus being above the Empire State
Building,’ I said. ‘And Hades being under Los Angeles.’
‘Right.’
‘But a whole sea full of monsters – how could you hide
something like that? Wouldn’t the mortals notice weird
things happening … like, ships getting eaten and stuﬀ?’
391
‘Of course they notice. They don’t understand, but they
know something is strange about that part of the ocean. The
Sea of Monsters is oﬀ the east coast of the U.S. now, just
north-east of Florida. The mortals even have a name for it.’
‘The Bermuda Triangle?’
‘Exactly.’
I let that sink in. I guess it wasn’t stranger than anything
else I’d learned since coming to Camp Half-Blood. ‘Okay …
so at least we know where to look.’
‘It’s still a huge area, Percy. Searching for one tiny island
in monster-infested waters –’
‘Hey, I’m the son of the sea god. This is my home turf.
How hard can it be?’
Annabeth knitted her eyebrows. ‘We’ll have to talk to
Tantalus, get approval for a quest. He’ll say no.’
‘Not if we tell him tonight at the campﬁre in front of
everybody. The whole camp will hear. They’ll pressure him.
He won’t be able to refuse.’
‘Maybe.’ A little bit of hope crept into Annabeth’s voice.
‘We’d better get these dishes done. Hand me the lava spray
gun, will you?’
That night at the campﬁre, Apollo’s cabin led the sing-along.
They tried to get everybody’s spirits up, but it wasn’t easy
after that afternoons bird attack. We all sat around a
semicircle of stone steps, singing half-heartedly and
watching the bonﬁre blaze while the Apollo guys strummed
their guitars and picked their lyres.
We did all the standard camp numbers: ‘Down by the
Aegean’, ‘I Am My Own Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandpa’,
‘This Land is Minos’s Land’. The bonﬁre was enchanted, so
the louder you sang, the higher it rose, changing colour and
heat with the mood of the crowd. On a good night, I’d seen
it six metres high, bright purple, and so hot the whole front
row’s marshmallows burst into ﬂames. Tonight, the ﬁre was
392
only a metre high, barely warm, and the ﬂames were the
colour of lint.
Dionysus left early. After suﬀering through a few songs, he
muttered something about how even pinochle with Chiron
had been more exciting than this. Then he gave Tantalus a
distasteful look and headed back towards the Big House.
When the last song was over, Tantalus said, ‘Well, that
was lovely!’
He came forward with a toasted marshmallow on a stick
and tried to pluck it oﬀ, real casual-like. But before he could
touch it, the marshmallow ﬂew oﬀ the stick. Tantalus made
a wild grab, but the marshmallow committed suicide, diving
into the ﬂames.
Tantalus turned back towards us, smiling coldly. ‘Now
then! Some announcements about tomorrow’s schedule.’
‘Sir,’ I said.
Tantalus’s eye twitched. ‘Our kitchen boy has something
to say?’
Some of the Ares campers snickered, but I wasn’t going to
let anybody embarrass me into silence. I stood and looked
at Annabeth. Thank the gods, she stood up with me.
I said, ‘We have an idea to save the camp.’
Dead silence, but I could tell I’d got everybody’s interest,
because the campﬁre ﬂared bright yellow.
‘Indeed,’ Tantalus said blandly. ‘Well, if it has anything to
do with chariots –’
‘The Golden Fleece,’ I said. ‘We know where it is.’
The ﬂames burned orange. Before Tantalus could stop me,
I blurted out my dream about Grover and Polyphemus’s
island. Annabeth stepped in and reminded everybody what
the Fleece could do. It sounded more convincing coming
from her.
‘The Fleece can save the camp,’ she concluded. ‘I’m
certain of it.’
‘Nonsense,’ said Tantalus. ‘We don’t need saving.’
393
Everybody stared at him until Tantalus started looking
uncomfortable.
‘Besides,’ he added quickly, ‘the Sea of Monsters? That’s
hardly an exact location. You wouldn’t even know where to
look.’
‘Yes, I would,’ I said.
Annabeth leaned towards me and whispered, ‘You would?’
I nodded, because Annabeth had jogged something in my
memory when she reminded me about our taxi drive with
the Grey Sisters. At the time, the information they’d given
me made no sense. But now …
‘Thirty, thirty-one, seventy-ﬁve, twelve,’ I said.
‘Ooo-kay,’ Tantalus said. ‘Thank you for sharing those
meaningless numbers.’
‘They’re 
sailing coordinates,’ I said. ‘Latitude and
longitude. I, uh, learned about it in social studies.’
Even Annabeth looked impressed. ‘Thirty degrees, thirty-
one minutes north, seventy-ﬁve degrees, twelve minutes
west. He’s right! The Grey Sisters gave us those
coordinates. That’d be somewhere in the Atlantic, oﬀ the
coast of Florida. The Sea of Monsters. We need a quest!’
‘Wait just a minute,’ Tantalus said.
But the campers took up the chant. ‘We need a quest! We
need a quest!’
The ﬂames rose higher.
‘It isn’t necessary!’ Tantalus insisted.
‘WE NEED A QUEST! WE NEED A QUEST!’
‘Fine!’ Tantalus shouted, his eyes blazing with anger. ‘You
brats want me to assign a quest?’
‘YES!’
‘Very well,’ he agreed. ‘I shall authorize a champion to
undertake this perilous journey, to retrieve the Golden
Fleece and bring it back to camp. Or die trying.’
My heart ﬁlled with excitement. I wasn’t going to let
Tantalus scare me. This was what I needed to do. I was
going to save Grover and the camp. Nothing would stop me.
394
‘I will allow our champion to consult the Oracle!’ Tantalus
announced. ‘And choose two companions for the journey.
And I think the choice of champions is obvious.’
Tantalus looked at Annabeth and me as if he wanted to
ﬂay us alive. ‘The champion should be one who has earned
the camp’s respect, who has proven resourceful in the
chariot races and courageous in the defence of the camp.
You shall lead this quest … Clarisse!’
The ﬁre ﬂickered a thousand diﬀerent colours. The Ares
cabin 
started 
stomping 
and 
cheering, 
‘CLARISSE!
CLARISSE!’
Clarisse stood up, looking stunned. Then she swallowed,
and her chest swelled with pride. ‘I accept the quest!’
‘Wait!’ I shouted. ‘Grover is my friend. The dream came to
me’.
‘Sit down!’ yelled one of the Ares campers. ‘You had your
chance last summer!’
‘Yeah, he just wants to be in the spotlight again!’ another
said.
Clarisse glared at me. ‘I accept the quest!’ she repeated.
‘I, Clarisse, daughter of Ares, will save the camp!’
The Ares campers cheered even louder. Annabeth
protested, and the other Athena campers joined in.
Everybody else started taking sides – shouting and arguing
and throwing marshmallows. I thought it was going to turn
into a fully ﬂedged s’more war until Tantalus shouted,
‘Silence, you brats!’
His tone stunned even me.
‘Sit down!’ he ordered. ‘And I will tell you a ghost story.’
I didn’t know what he was up to, but we all moved
reluctantly back to our seats. The evil aura radiating from
Tantalus was as strong as any monster I’d ever faced.
‘Once upon a time there was a mortal king who was
beloved of the gods!’ Tantalus put his hand on his chest, and
I got the feeling he was talking about himself.
395
‘This king,’ he said, ‘was even allowed to feast on Mount
Olympus. But when he tried to take some ambrosia and
nectar back to earth to ﬁgure out the recipe – just one little
doggy bag, mind you – the gods punished him. They banned
him from their halls forever! His own people mocked him!
His children scolded him! And, oh yes, campers, he had
horrible children. Children – just – like – you!’
He pointed a crooked ﬁnger at several people in the
audience, including me.
‘Do you know what he did to his ungrateful children?’
Tantalus asked softly. ‘Do you know how he paid back the
gods for their cruel punishment? He invited the Olympians
to a feast at his palace, just to show there were no hard
feelings. No one noticed that his children were missing. And
when he served the gods dinner, my dear campers, can you
guess what was in the stew?’
No one dared answer. The ﬁrelight glowed dark blue,
reﬂecting evilly on Tantalus’s crooked face.
‘Oh, the gods punished him in the afterlife,’ Tantalus
croaked. ‘They did indeed. But he’d had his moment of
satisfaction, hadn’t he? His children never again spoke back
to him or questioned his authority. And do you know what?
Rumour has it that the king’s spirit now dwells at this very
camp, waiting for a chance to take revenge on ungrateful,
rebellious children. And so … are there any more
complaints, before we send Clarisse oﬀ on her quest?’
Silence.
Tantalus nodded at Clarisse. ‘The Oracle, my dear. Go on.’
She shifted uncomfortably, like even she didn’t want glory
at the price of being Tantalus’s pet. ‘Sir –’
‘Go!’ he snarled.
She bowed awkwardly and hurried oﬀ towards the Big
House.
‘What about you, Percy Jackson?’ Tantalus asked. ‘No
comments from our dishwasher?’
396
I didn’t say anything. I wasn’t going to give him the
satisfaction of punishing me again.
‘Good,’ Tantalus said. ‘And let me remind everyone – no
one leaves this camp without my permission. Anyone who
tries … well, if they survive the attempt, they will be
expelled forever, but it won’t come to that. The harpies will
be enforcing curfew from now on, and they are always
hungry! Good night, my dear campers. Sleep well.’
With a wave of Tantalus’s hand, the ﬁre was extinguished,
and the campers trailed oﬀ towards their cabins in the dark.
I couldn’t explain things to Tyson. He knew I was sad. He
knew I wanted to go on a trip and Tantalus wouldn’t let me.
‘You will go anyway?’ he asked.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘It would be hard. Very hard.’
‘I will help.’
‘No. I – uh, I couldn’t ask you to do that, big guy. Too
dangerous.’
Tyson looked down at the pieces of metal he was
assembling in his lap – springs and gears and tiny wires.
Beckendorf had given him some tools and spare parts, and
now Tyson spent every night tinkering, though I wasn’t sure
how his huge hands could handle such delicate little pieces.
‘What are you building?’ I asked.
Tyson didn’t answer. Instead he made a whimpering sound
in the back of his throat. ‘Annabeth doesn’t like Cyclopes.
You … don’t want me along?’
‘Oh, that’s not it,’ I said half-heartedly. ‘Annabeth likes
you. Really.’
He had tears in the corners of his eye.
I remembered that Grover, like all satyrs, could read
human emotions. I wondered if Cyclopes had the same
ability.
Tyson folded up his tinkering project in an oilcloth. He lay
down on his bunk bed and hugged his bundle like a teddy
bear. When he turned towards the wall, I could see the weird
397
scars on his back, like somebody had ploughed over him
with a tractor. I wondered for the millionth time how he’d
got hurt.
‘Daddy always cared for m-me,’ he sniﬄed. ‘Now … I think
he was mean to have a Cyclops boy. I should not have been
born.’
‘Don’t talk that way! Poseidon claimed you, didn’t he? So
… he must care about you … a lot…’
My voice trailed oﬀ as I thought about all those years
Tyson had lived on the streets of New York in a cardboard
refrigerator box. How could Tyson think that Poseidon had
cared for him? What kind of dad let that happen to his kid,
even if his kid was a monster?
‘Tyson … camp will be a good home for you. The others
will get used to you. I promise.’
Tyson sighed. I waited for him to say something. Then I
realized he was already asleep.
I lay back on my bed and tried to close my eyes, but I just
couldn’t. I was afraid I might have another dream about
Grover. If the empathy link was real … if something
happened to Grover … would I ever wake up?
The full moon shone through my window. The sound of the
surf rumbled in the distance. I could smell the warm scent of
the strawberry ﬁelds, and hear the laughter of the dryads as
they chased owls through the forest. But something felt
wrong about the night – the sickness of Thalia’s tree,
spreading across the valley.
Could Clarisse save Half-Blood Hill? I thought the odds
were better of me getting a ‘Best Camper’ award from
Tantalus.
I got out of bed and pulled on some clothes. I grabbed a
beach blanket and a six-pack of Coke from under my bunk.
The Cokes were against the rules. No outside snacks or
drinks were allowed, but if you talked to the right guy in
Hermes’s cabin and paid him a few golden drachmas, he
398
could smuggle in almost anything from the nearest
convenience store.
Sneaking out after curfew was against the rules, too. If I
got caught I’d either get in big trouble or be eaten by the
harpies. But I wanted to see the ocean. I always felt better
there. My thoughts were clearer. I left the cabin and headed
for the beach.
* * *
 
I spread my blanket near the surf and popped open a Coke.
For some reason sugar and caﬀeine always calmed down
my hyperactive brain. I tried to decide what to do to save
the camp, but nothing came to me. I wished Poseidon would
talk to me, give me some advice or something.
The sky was clear and starry. I was checking out the
constellations Annabeth had taught me – Sagittarius,
Heracles, Corona Borealis – when somebody said, ‘Beautiful,
aren’t they?’
I almost spewed soda.
Standing right next to me was a guy in nylon running
shorts and a New York City Marathon T-shirt. He was slim
and ﬁt, with salt-and-pepper hair and a sly smile. He looked
kind of familiar, but I couldn’t ﬁgure out why.
My ﬁrst thought was that he must’ve been taking a
midnight jog down the beach and strayed inside the camp
borders. That wasn’t supposed to happen. Regular mortals
couldn’t enter the valley. But maybe with the tree’s magic
weakening he’d managed to slip in. But in the middle of the
night? And there was nothing around except farmland and
state preserves. Where would this guy have jogged from?
‘May I join you?’ he asked. ‘I haven’t sat down in ages.’
Now, I know – a strange guy in the middle of the night.
Common sense: I was supposed to run away, yell for help,
etc. But the guy acted so calm about the whole thing that I
found it hard to be afraid.
399
I said, ‘Uh, sure.’
He smiled. ‘Your hospitality does you credit. Oh, and Coca-
Cola! May I?’
He sat at the other end of the blanket, popped a soda and
took a drink. ‘Ah … that hits the spot. Peace and quiet at –’
A cell phone went oﬀ in his pocket.
The jogger sighed. He pulled out his phone and my eyes
got big, because it glowed with a bluish light. When he
extended the antenna, two creatures began writhing around
it – green snakes, no bigger than earthworms.
The jogger didn’t seem to notice. He checked his LCD
screen and cursed. ‘I’ve got to take this. Just a sec…’ Then
into the phone, ‘Hello?’
He listened. The mini-snakes writhed up and down the
antenna right next to his ear.
‘Yeah,’ the jogger said. ‘Listen – I know, but … I don’t care
if he is chained to a rock with vultures pecking at his liver, if
he doesn’t have a tracking number, we can’t locate his
package … A gift to humankind, great … You know how
many of those we deliver – Oh, never mind. Listen, just refer
him to Eris in customer service. I gotta go.’
He hung up. ‘Sorry. The overnight express business is just
booming. Now, as I was saying –’
‘You have snakes on your phone.’
‘What? Oh, they don’t bite. Say hello, George and Martha.’
Hello, George and Martha, a raspy male voice said inside
my head.
Don’t be sarcastic, said a female voice.
Why not? George demanded. I do all the real work.
‘Oh, let’s not go into that again!’ The jogger slipped his
phone back into his pocket. ‘Now, where were we … Ah, yes.
Peace and quiet.’
He crossed his ankles and stared up at the stars. ‘Been a
long time since I’ve got to relax. Ever since the telegraph –
rush, rush, rush. Do you have a favourite constellation,
Percy?’
400
I was still kind of wondering about the little green snakes
he’d shoved into his jogging shorts, but I said, ‘Uh, I like
Heracles.’
‘Why?’
‘Well … because he had rotten luck. Even worse than
mine. It makes me feel better.’
The jogger chuckled. ‘Not because he was strong and
famous and all that?’
‘No.’
‘You’re an interesting young man. And so, what now?’
I knew immediately what he was asking. What did I intend
to do about the Fleece?
Before I could answer, Martha the snake’s muﬄed voice
came from his pocket, I have Demeter on line two.
‘Not now,’ the jogger said. ‘Tell her to leave a message.’
She’s not going to like that. The last time you put her oﬀ,
all the ﬂowers in the ﬂoral delivery division wilted.
‘Just tell her I’m in a meeting!’ The jogger rolled his eyes.
‘Sorry again, Percy. You were saying…’
‘Um … who are you, exactly?’
‘Haven’t you guessed by now, a smart boy like you?’
Show him! Martha pleaded. I haven’t been full-size for
months.
Don’t listen to her! George said. She just wants to show
oﬀ!
The man took out his phone again. ‘Original form, please.’
The phone glowed a brilliant blue. It stretched into a
metre-long wooden staﬀ with dove wings sprouting out the
top. George and Martha, now full-sized green snakes, coiled
together around the middle. It was a caduceus, the symbol
of Cabin Eleven.
My throat tightened. I realized who the jogger reminded
me of with his elﬁsh features, the mischievous twinkle in his
eyes….
‘You’re Luke’s father,’ I said. ‘Hermes.’
401
The god pursed his lips. He stuck his caduceus in the sand
like an umbrella pole. ‘ “Luke’s father.” Normally, that’s not
the ﬁrst way people introduce me. God of thieves, yes. God
of messengers and travellers, if they wish to be kind.’
God of thieves works, George said.
Oh, don’t mind George. Martha ﬂicked her tongue at me.
He’s just bitter because Hermes likes me best.
He does not!
Does too!
‘Behave, you two,’ Hermes warned, ‘or I’ll turn you back
into a cell phone and set you on vibrate! Now, Percy, you
still haven’t answered my question. What do you intend to
do about the quest?’
‘I – I don’t have permission to go.’
‘No, indeed. Will that stop you?’
‘I want to go. I have to save Grover.’
Hermes smiled. ‘I knew a boy once … oh, younger than
you by far. A mere baby, really.’
Here we go again, George said. Always talking about
himself.
Quiet! Martha snapped. Do you want to get set on
vibrate?
Hermes ignored them. ‘One night, when this boy’s mother
wasn’t watching, he sneaked out of their cave and stole
some cattle that belonged to Apollo.’
‘Did he get blasted to tiny pieces?’ I asked.
‘Hmm … no. Actually, everything turned out quite well. To
make up for his theft, the boy gave Apollo an instrument
he’d invented – a lyre. Apollo was so enchanted with the
music that he forgot all about being angry.’
‘So what’s the moral?’
‘The moral?’ Hermes asked. ‘Goodness, you act like it’s a
fable. It’s a true story. Does truth have a moral?’
‘Um…’
‘How about this: stealing is not always bad?’
‘I don’t think my mom would like that moral.’
402
Rats are delicious, suggested George.
What does that have to do with the story? Martha
demanded.
Nothing, George said. But I’m hungry.
‘I’ve got it,’ Hermes said. ‘Young people don’t always do
what they’re told, but if they can pull it oﬀ and do
something wonderful, sometimes they escape punishment.
How’s that?’
‘You’re saying I should go anyway,’ I said, ‘even without
permission.’
Hermes’s eyes twinkled. ‘Martha, may I have the ﬁrst
package, please?’
Martha opened her mouth … and kept opening it until it
was as wide as my arm. She belched out a stainless steel
canister – an old-fashioned lunch box ﬂask with a black
plastic top. The sides of the ﬂask were enamelled with red
and yellow Ancient Greek scenes – a hero killing a lion; a
hero lifting up Cerberus, the three-headed dog.
‘That’s Heracles,’ I said. ‘But how –’
‘Never question a gift,’ Hermes chided. ‘This is a
collector’s item from Heracles Busts Heads. The ﬁrst
season.’
‘Heracles Busts Heads?’
‘Great show.’ Hermes sighed. ‘Back before Hephaestus-TV
was all reality programming. Of course, the Flask would be
worth much more if I had the whole lunch box –’
Or if it hadn’t been in Martha’s mouth, George added.
I’ll get you for that. Martha began chasing him around the
caduceus.
‘Wait a minute,’ I said. ‘This is a gift?’
‘One of two,’ Hermes said. ‘Go on, pick it up.’
I almost dropped it because it was freezing cold on one
side and burning hot on the other. The weird thing was,
when I turned the Flask, the side facing the ocean – north –
was always the cold side…
‘It’s a compass!’ I said.
403
Hermes looked surprised. ‘Very clever. I never thought of
that. But its intended use is a bit more dramatic. Uncap it,
and you will release the winds from the four corners of the
earth to speed you on your way. Not now! And please, when
the time comes, only unscrew the lid a tiny bit. The winds
are a bit like me – always restless. Should all four escape at
once … ah, but I’m sure you’ll be careful. And now my
second gift. George?’
She’s touching me, George complained as he and Martha
slithered around the pole.
‘She’s always touching you,’ Hermes said. ‘You’re
intertwined. And if you don’t stop that, you’ll get knotted
again!’
The snakes stopped wrestling.
George unhinged his jaw and coughed up a little plastic
bottle ﬁlled with chewable vitamins.
‘You’re kidding,’ I said. ‘Are those Minotaur-shaped?’
Hermes picked up the bottle and rattled it. ‘The lemon
ones, yes. The grape ones are Furies, I think. Or are they
hydras? At any rate, these are potent. Don’t take one unless
you really, really need it.’
‘How will I know if I really, really need it?’
‘You’ll 
know, 
believe 
me. 
Nine 
essential 
vitamins,
minerals, amino acids … oh, everything you need to feel
yourself again.’
He tossed me the bottle.
‘Um, thanks,’ I said. ‘But Lord Hermes, why are you
helping me?’
He gave me a melancholy smile. ‘Perhaps because I hope
that you can save many people on this quest, Percy. Not just
your friend Grover.’
I stared at him. ‘You don’t mean … Luke?’
Hermes didn’t answer.
‘Look,’ I said. ‘Lord Hermes, I mean, thanks and
everything, but you might as well take back your gifts. Luke
can’t be saved. Even if I could ﬁnd him … he told me he
404
wanted to tear down Olympus stone by stone. He betrayed
everybody he knew. He – he hates you especially.’
Hermes gazed up at the stars. ‘My dear young cousin, if
there’s one thing I’ve learned over the aeons, it’s that you
can’t give up on your family, no matter how tempting they
make it. It doesn’t matter if they hate you, or embarrass
you, or simply don’t appreciate your genius for inventing the
internet –’
 
‘You invented the internet?’
It was my idea, Martha said.
Rats are delicious, George said.
 
 
‘It was my idea!’ Hermes said. ‘I mean the internet, not
the rats. But that’s not the point. Percy, do you understand
what I’m saying about family?’
‘I – I’m not sure.’
‘You will some day.’ Hermes got up and brushed the sand
oﬀ his legs. ‘In the meantime, I must be going.’
You have sixty calls to return, Martha said.
And one thousand and thirty-eight emails, George added.
Not counting the oﬀers for online discount ambrosia.
‘And you, Percy,’ Hermes said, ‘have a shorter deadline
than you realize to complete your quest. Your friends should
be coming right about … now.’
I heard Annabeth’s voice calling my name from the sand
dunes. Tyson, too, was shouting from a little bit further
away.
‘I hope I packed well for you,’ Hermes said. ‘I do have
some experience with travel.’
He snapped his ﬁngers and three yellow duﬀel bags
appeared at my feet. ‘Waterproof, of course. If you ask
nicely, your father should be able to help you reach the
ship.’
‘Ship?’
405
Hermes pointed. Sure enough, a big cruise ship was
cutting across Long Island Sound, its white-and-gold lights
glowing against the dark water.
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘I don’t understand any of this. I haven’t
even agreed to go!’
‘I’d make up your mind in the next ﬁve minutes, if I were
you,’ Hermes advised. ‘That’s when the harpies will come to
eat you. Now, goodnight, cousin, and dare I say it? May the
gods go with you.’
He opened his hand and the caduceus ﬂew into it.
Good luck, Martha told me.
Bring me back a rat, George said.
The caduceus changed into a cell phone and Hermes
slipped it into his pocket.
He jogged oﬀ down the beach. Twenty paces away, he
shimmered and vanished, leaving me alone with a ﬂask, a
bottle of chewable vitamins and ﬁve minutes to make an
impossible decision.
406
8    We Board the Princess Andromeda
 
I was staring at the waves when Annabeth and Tyson found
me.
‘What’s going on?’ Annabeth asked. ‘I heard you calling
for help!’
‘Me, too!’ Tyson said. ‘Heard you yell, “Bad things are
attacking!’ ”
‘I didn’t call you guys,’ I said. ‘I’m ﬁne.’
‘But then who…’ Annabeth noticed the three yellow duﬀel
bags, then the Flask and the bottle of vitamins I was
holding. ‘What –’
‘Just listen,’ I said. ‘We don’t have much time.’
I told them about my conversation with Hermes. By the
time I was ﬁnished, I could hear screeching in the distance –
patrol harpies picking up our scent.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, ‘we have to do the quest.’
‘We’ll get expelled, you know. Trust me, I’m an expert at
getting expelled.’
‘So? If we fail, there won’t be any camp to come back to.’
‘Yeah, but you promised Chiron –’
‘I promised I’d keep you from danger. I can only do that by
coming with you! Tyson can stay behind and tell them –’
‘I want to go,’ Tyson said.
‘No!’ Annabeth’s voice sounded close to panic. ‘I mean …
Percy, come on. You know that’s impossible.’
I wondered again why she had such a grudge against
Cyclopes. There was something she wasn’t telling me.
She and Tyson both looked at me, waiting for an answer.
Meanwhile, the cruise ship was getting further and further
407
away.
The thing was, part of me didn’t want Tyson along. I’d
spent the last three days in close quarters with the guy,
getting teased by the other campers and embarrassed a
million times a day, constantly reminded that I was related
to him. I needed some space.
Plus, I didn’t know how much help he’d be, or how I’d keep
him safe. Sure, he was strong, but Tyson was a little kid in
Cyclops terms, maybe seven or eight years old, mentally. I
could see him freaking out and starting to cry while we were
trying to sneak past a monster or something. He’d get us all
killed.
On the other hand, the sound of the harpies was getting
closer…
‘We can’t leave him,’ I decided. ‘Tantalus will punish him
for us being gone.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, trying to keep her cool, ‘we’re
going to Polyphemus’s island! Polyphemus is an S-i-k … a C-
y-k…’ She stamped her foot in frustration. As smart as she
was, Annabeth was dyslexic, too. We could’ve been there all
night while she tried to spell Cyclops. ‘You know what I
mean!’
‘Tyson can go,’ I insisted, ‘if he wants to.’
Tyson clapped his hands. ‘Want to!’
Annabeth gave me the evil eye, but I guess she could tell I
wasn’t going to change my mind. Or maybe she just knew
we didn’t have time to argue.
‘All right,’ she said. ‘How do we get to that ship?’
‘Hermes said my father would help.’
‘Well then, Seaweed Brain? What are you waiting for?’
I’d always had a hard time calling on my father, or
praying, or whatever you want to call it, but I stepped into
the waves.
‘Um, Dad?’ I called. ‘How’s it going?’
‘Percy!’ Annabeth whispered. ‘We’re in a hurry!’
408
‘We need your help,’ I called a little louder. ‘We need to
get to that ship, like, before we get eaten and stuﬀ, so…’
At ﬁrst, nothing happened. Waves crashed against the
shore like normal. The harpies sounded like they were right
behind the sand dunes. Then, about a hundred metres out
to sea, three white lines appeared on the surface. They
moved fast towards the shore, like claws ripping through the
ocean.
As they neared the beach, the surf burst apart and the
heads of three white stallions reared out of the waves.
Tyson caught his breath. ‘Fish ponies!’
He was right. As the creatures pulled themselves onto the
sand, I saw that they were only horses in the front; their
back halves were silvery ﬁsh bodies, with glistening scales
and rainbow-tail ﬁns.
‘Hippocampi!’ Annabeth said. ‘They’re beautiful.’
The nearest one whinnied in appreciation and nuzzled
Annabeth.
‘We’ll admire them later,’ I said. ‘Come on!’
‘There!’ a voice screeched behind us. ‘Bad children out of
cabins! Snack time for lucky harpies!’
Five of them were ﬂuttering over the top of the dunes –
plump little hags with pinched faces and talons and feathery
wings too small for their bodies. They reminded me of
miniature cafeteria ladies who’d been crossbred with dodo
birds. They weren’t very fast, thank the gods, but they were
vicious if they caught you.
‘Tyson!’ I said. ‘Grab a duﬀel bag!’
He was still staring at the hippocampi with his mouth
hanging open.
‘Tyson!’
‘Uh?’
‘Come on!’
With Annabeth’s help I got him moving. We gathered the
bags and mounted our steeds. Poseidon must’ve known
Tyson 
was 
one 
of 
the 
passengers, 
because 
one
409
hippocampus was much larger than the other two – just
right for carrying a Cyclops.
‘Giddy-up!’ I said. My hippocampus turned and plunged
into the waves. Annabeth’s and Tyson’s followed right
behind.
The harpies cursed at us, wailing for their snacks to come
back, but the hippocampi raced over the water at the speed
of jet skis. The harpies fell behind, and soon the shore of
Camp Half-Blood was nothing but a dark smudge. I
wondered if I’d ever see the place again. But right then I
had other problems.
The cruise ship was now looming in front of us – our ride
towards Florida and the Sea of Monsters.
* * *
 
Riding the hippocampus was even easier than riding a
pegasus. We zipped along with the wind in our faces,
speeding through the waves so smoothly and steadily I
hardly needed to hold on at all.
As we got closer to the cruise ship, I realized just how
huge it was. I felt as though I were looking up at a building
in Manhattan. The white hull was at least ten storeys tall,
topped with another dozen levels of decks with brightly lit
balconies and portholes. The ship’s name was painted just
above the bow line in black letters, lit with a spotlight. It
took me a few seconds to decipher it:
PRINCESS ANDROMEDA
 
Attached to the bow was a huge masthead – a three-storey-
tall woman wearing a white Greek chiton, sculpted to look
as if she were chained to the front of the ship. She was
young and beautiful, with ﬂowing black hair, but her
expression was one of absolute terror. Why anybody would
410
want a screaming princess on the front of their vacation
ship, I had no idea.
I remembered the myth about Andromeda and how she
had been chained to a rock by her own parents as a
sacriﬁce to a sea monster. Maybe she’d got too many Fs on
her report card or something. Anyway, my namesake,
Perseus, had saved her just in time and turned the sea
monster to stone using the head of Medusa.
That Perseus always won. That’s why my mom had named
me after him, even though he was a son of Zeus and I was a
son of Poseidon. The original Perseus was one of the only
heroes in the Greek myths who got a happy ending. The
others died – betrayed, mauled, mutilated, poisoned, or
cursed by the gods. My mom hoped I would inherit Perseus’s
luck. Judging by how my life was going so far, I wasn’t really
optimistic.
‘How do we get aboard?’ Annabeth shouted over the noise
of the waves, but the hippocampi seemed to know what we
needed. They skimmed along the starboard side of the ship,
riding easily through its huge wake, and pulled up next to a
service ladder riveted to the side of the hull.
‘You ﬁrst,’ I told Annabeth.
She slung her duﬀel bag over her shoulder and grabbed
the bottom rung. Once she’d hoisted herself onto the
ladder, her hippocampus whinnied a farewell and dived
underwater. Annabeth began to climb. I let her get a few
rungs up, then followed her.
Finally it was just Tyson in the water. His hippocampus was
treating him to 360° aerials and backwards ollies, and Tyson
was laughing so hysterically, the sound echoed up the side
of the ship.
‘Tyson, shhh!’ I said. ‘Come on, big guy!’
‘Can’t we take Rainbow?’ he asked, his smile fading.
I stared at him. ‘Rainbow?’
The hippocampus whinnied as if he liked his new name.
411
‘Um, we have to go,’ I said. ‘Rainbow … well, he can’t
climb ladders.’
Tyson sniﬄed. He buried his face in the hippocampus’s
mane. ‘I will miss you, Rainbow!’
The hippocampus made a neighing sound I could’ve sworn
was crying.
‘Maybe we’ll see him again sometime,’ I suggested.
‘Oh, 
please!’ 
Tyson 
said, 
perking 
up 
immediately.
‘Tomorrow!’
I didn’t make any promises, but I ﬁnally convinced Tyson
to say his farewells and grab hold of the ladder. With a ﬁnal
sad whinny, Rainbow the hippocampus did a backﬂip and
dived into the sea.
The ladder led to a maintenance deck stacked with yellow
lifeboats. There was a set of locked double doors, which
Annabeth managed to prise open with her knife and a fair
amount of cursing in Ancient Greek.
I ﬁgured we’d have to sneak around, being stowaways and
all, but after checking a few corridors and peering over a
balcony into a huge central promenade lined with closed
shops, I began to realize there was nobody to hide from. I
mean, sure it was the middle of the night, but we walked
half the length of the boat and met no one. We passed forty
or ﬁfty cabin doors and heard no sound behind any of them.
‘It’s a ghost ship,’ I murmured.
‘No,’ Tyson said, ﬁddling with the strap of his duﬀel bag.
‘Bad smell.’
Annabeth frowned. ‘I don’t smell anything.’
‘Cyclopes are like satyrs,’ I said. ‘They can smell
monsters. Isn’t that right, Tyson?’
He nodded nervously. Now that we were away from Camp
Half-Blood, the Mist had distorted his face again. Unless I
concentrated very hard, it seemed that he had two eyes
instead of one.
‘Okay,’ Annabeth said. ‘So what exactly do you smell?’
412
‘Something bad,’ Tyson answered.
‘Great,’ Annabeth grumbled. ‘That clears it up.’
We came outside on the swimming pool level. There were
rows of empty deckchairs and a bar closed oﬀ with a chain
curtain. The water in the pool glowed eerily, sloshing back
and forth from the motion of the ship.
Above us fore and aft were more levels – a climbing wall, a
pitch-and-putt golf course, a revolving restaurant, but no
sign of life.
And yet … I sensed something familiar. Something
dangerous. I had the feeling that if I weren’t so tired and
burned out on adrenalin from our long night, I might be able
to put a name to what was wrong.
‘We need a hiding place,’ I said. ‘Somewhere safe to
sleep.’
‘Sleep,’ Annabeth agreed wearily.
We explored a few more corridors until we found an empty
suite on the ninth level. The door was open, which struck
me as weird. There was a basket of chocolate goodies on
the table, an iced-down bottle of sparkling cider on the
nightstand and a mint on the pillow with a handwritten note
that said: Enjoy your cruise!
We opened our duﬀel bags for the ﬁrst time and found
that Hermes really had thought of everything – extra
clothes, toiletries, camp rations, an airtight bag full of cash,
a leather pouch full of golden drachmas. He’d even
managed to pack Tyson’s oilcloth with his tools and metal
bits, and Annabeth’s cap of invisibility, which made them
both feel a lot better.
‘I’ll be next door,’ Annabeth said. ‘You guys don’t drink or
eat anything.’
‘You think this place is enchanted?’
She frowned. ‘I don’t know. Something isn’t right. Just …
be careful.’
We locked our doors.
413
Tyson crashed on the couch. He tinkered for a few minutes
on his metalworking project – which he still wouldn’t show
me – but soon enough he was yawning. He wrapped up his
oilcloth and passed out.
I lay on the bed and stared out of the porthole. I thought I
heard voices out in the hallway, like whispering. I knew that
couldn’t be. We’d walked all over the ship and had seen
nobody. But the voices kept me awake. They reminded me
of my trip to the Underworld – the way the spirits of the
dead sounded as they drifted past.
Finally my weariness got the best of me. I fell asleep …
and had my worst dream yet.
I was standing in a cavern at the edge of an enormous pit. I
knew the place too well. The entrance to Tartarus. And I
recognized the cold laugh that echoed from the darkness
below.
If it isn’t the young hero. The voice was like a knife blade
scraping across stone. On his way to another great victory.
I wanted to shout at Kronos to leave me alone. I wanted to
draw Riptide and strike him down. But I couldn’t move. And
even if I could, how could I kill something that had already
been destroyed – chopped to pieces and cast into eternal
darkness?
Don’t let me stop you, the titan said. Perhaps this time,
when you fail, you’ll wonder if it’s worthwhile slaving for the
gods. How exactly has your father shown his appreciation
lately?
His laughter ﬁlled the cavern, and suddenly the scene
changed.
It was a diﬀerent cave – Grover’s bedroom prison in the
Cyclops’s lair.
Grover was sitting at the loom in his soiled wedding dress,
madly unravelling the threads of the unﬁnished bridal train.
‘Honeypie!’ the monster shouted from behind the boulder.
414
Grover yelped and began weaving the threads back
together.
The room shook as the boulder was pushed aside.
Looming in the doorway was a Cyclops so huge he made
Tyson look vertically challenged. He had jagged yellow teeth
and gnarled hands as big as my whole body. He wore a
faded purple T-shirt that said WORLD SHEEP EXPO 2001. He
must’ve been at least ﬁve metres tall, but the most startling
thing was his enormous milky eye, scarred and webbed with
cataracts. If he wasn’t completely blind, he had to be pretty
darn close.
‘What are you doing?’ the monster demanded.
‘Nothing!’ Grover said in his falsetto voice. ‘Just weaving
my bridal train, as you can see.’
The Cyclops stuck one hand into the room and groped
around until he found the loom. He pawed at the cloth. ‘It
hasn’t got any longer!’
‘Oh, um, yes it has, dearest. See? I’ve added at least three
centimetres.’
‘Too many delays!’ the monster bellowed. Then he sniﬀed
the air. ‘You smell good! Like goats!’
‘Oh.’ Grover forced a weak giggle. ‘Do you like it? It’s Eau
de Chévre. I wore it just for you.’
‘Mmmm!’ The Cyclops bared his pointed teeth. ‘Good
enough to eat!’
‘Oh, you’re such a ﬂirt!’
‘No more delays!’
‘But dear, I’m not done!’
‘Tomorrow!’
‘No, no. Ten more days.’
‘Five!’
‘Oh, well, seven then. If you insist.’
‘Seven! That is less than ﬁve, right?’
‘Certainly. Oh yes.’
The monster grumbled, still not happy with his deal, but
he left Grover to his weaving and rolled the boulder back
415
into place.
Grover closed his eyes and took a shaky breath, trying to
calm his nerves.
‘Hurry, Percy,’ he muttered. ‘Please, please, please!’
I woke to a ship’s whistle and a voice on the intercom –
some guy with an Australian accent who sounded way too
happy.
‘Good morning, passengers! We’ll be at sea all day today.
Excellent weather for the poolside mambo party! Don’t
forget million-dollar bingo in the Kraken Lounge at one
o’clock, and for our special guests, disembowelling practice
on the Promenade!’
I sat up in bed. ‘What did he say?’
Tyson groaned, still half asleep. He was lying face down on
the couch, his feet so far over the edge they were in the
bathroom. ‘The happy man said … bowling practice?’
I hoped he was right, but then there was an urgent knock
on the suite’s interior door. Annabeth stuck her head in – her
blonde hair in a rat’s nest. ‘Disembowelling practice?’
Once we were all dressed, we ventured out into the ship
and were surprised to see other people. A dozen senior
citizens were heading to breakfast. A dad was taking his
kids to the pool for a morning swim. Crew members in crisp
white uniforms strolled the deck, tipping their hats to the
passengers.
Nobody asked who we were. Nobody paid us much
attention. But there was something wrong.
As the family of swimmers passed us, the dad told his
kids, ‘We are on a cruise. We are having fun.’
‘Yes,’ his three kids said in unison, their expressions blank.
‘We are having a blast. We will swim in the pool.’
They wandered oﬀ.
‘Good morning,’ a crew member told us, his eyes glazed.
‘We are all enjoying ourselves aboard the Princess
Andromeda. Have a nice day.’ He drifted away.
416
‘Percy, this is weird,’ Annabeth whispered. ‘They’re all in
some kind of trance.’
Then we passed a cafeteria and saw our ﬁrst monster. It
was a hellhound – a black mastiﬀ with its front paws up on
the buﬀet counter and its muzzle buried in the scrambled
eggs. It must’ve been young, because it was small
compared to most – no bigger than a grizzly bear. Still, my
blood turned cold. I’d almost got killed by one of those
before.
The weird thing was, a middle-aged couple was standing
in the buﬀet queue right behind the devil dog, patiently
waiting their turn for the eggs. They didn’t seem to notice
anything out of the ordinary.
‘Not hungry any more,’ Tyson murmured.
Before Annabeth or I could reply, a reptilian voice came
from down the corridor, ‘Ssssix more joined yesssterday.’
Annabeth gestured frantically towards the nearest hiding
place – the women’s room – and all three of us ducked
inside. I was so freaked out it didn’t even occur to me to be
embarrassed.
Something – or more like two somethings – slithered past
the restroom door, making sounds like sandpaper against
the carpet.
‘Yesss,’ a second reptilian voice said. ‘He drawssss them.
Ssssoon we will be sssstrong.’
The things slithered into the cafeteria with a cold hissing
that might have been snake laughter.
Annabeth looked at me. ‘We have to get out of here.’
‘You think I want to be in the girls’ restroom?’
‘I mean the ship, Percy! We have to get oﬀ the ship.’
‘Smells bad,’ Tyson agreed. ‘And dogs eat all the eggs.
Annabeth is right. We must leave the restroom and ship.’
I shuddered. If Annabeth and Tyson were actually agreeing
about something, I ﬁgured I’d better listen.
Then I heard another voice outside – one that chilled me
worse than any monster’s.
417
‘– only a matter of time. Don’t push me, Agrius!’
It was Luke, beyond a doubt. I could never forget his
voice.
‘I’m not pushing you!’ another guy growled. His voice was
deeper and even angrier than Luke’s. ‘I’m just saying, if this
gamble doesn’t pay oﬀ –’
‘It’ll pay oﬀ, Luke snapped. ‘They’ll take the bait. Now,
come, we’ve got to get to the admiralty suite and check on
the casket.’
Their voices receded down the corridor.
Tyson whimpered. ‘Leave now?’
Annabeth and I exchanged looks and came to a silent
agreement.
‘We can’t,’ I told Tyson.
‘We have to ﬁnd out what Luke is up to,’ Annabeth agreed.
‘And if possible, we’re going to beat him up, bind him in
chains and drag him to Mount Olympus.’
418
9    I Have the Worst Family Reunion Ever
 
Annabeth volunteered to go alone since she had the cap of
invisibility, but I convinced her it was too dangerous. Either
we all went together, or nobody went.
‘Nobody!’ Tyson voted. ‘Please?’
But in the end he came along, nervously chewing on his
huge ﬁngernails. We stopped at our cabin long enough to
gather our stuﬀ. We ﬁgured whatever happened, we would
not be staying another night aboard the zombie cruise ship,
even if they did have million-dollar bingo. I made sure
Riptide was in my pocket and the vitamins and ﬂask from
Hermes were at the top of my bag. I didn’t want Tyson to
carry everything, but he insisted, and Annabeth told me not
to worry about it. Tyson could carry three full duﬀel bags
over his shoulder as easily as I could carry a backpack.
We sneaked through the corridors, following the ship’s
YOU ARE HERE signs towards the admiralty suite. Annabeth
scouted ahead invisibly. We hid whenever someone passed
by, but most of the people we saw were just glassy-eyed
zombie passengers.
As we came up the stairs to deck thirteen, where the
admiralty suite was supposed to be, Annabeth hissed,
‘Hide!’ and shoved us into a supply closet.
I heard a couple of guys coming down the hall.
‘You see that Aethiopian drakon in the cargo hold?’ one of
them said.
The other laughed. ‘Yeah, it’s awesome.’
Annabeth was still invisible, but she squeezed my arm
hard. I got a feeling I should know that second guy’s voice.
419
‘I hear they got two more coming,’ the familiar voice said.
‘They keep arriving at this rate, oh, man – no contest!’
The voices faded down the corridor.
‘That was Chris Rodriguez!’ Annabeth took oﬀ her cap and
turned visible. ‘You remember – from Cabin Eleven.’
I sort of recalled Chris from the summer before. He was
one of those undetermined campers who got stuck in the
Hermes cabin because his Olympian dad or mom never
claimed him. Now that I thought about it, I realized I hadn’t
seen Chris at camp this summer. ‘What’s another half-blood
doing here?’
Annabeth shook her head, clearly troubled.
We kept going down the corridor. I didn’t need maps any
more to know I was getting close to Luke. I sensed
something cold and unpleasant – the presence of evil.
‘Percy.’ Annabeth stopped suddenly. ‘Look.’
She stood in front of a glass wall looking down into the
multistorey canyon that ran through the middle of the ship.
At the bottom was the Promenade – a mall full of shops –
but that’s not what had caught Annabeth’s attention.
A group of monsters had assembled in front of the candy
store: a dozen Laistrygonian giants like the ones who’d
attacked me with dodgeballs, two hellhounds and a few
even stranger creatures – humanoid females with twin
serpent tails instead of legs.
‘Scythian 
Dracaenae,’ 
Annabeth 
whispered. 
‘Dragon
women.’
The monsters made a semicircle around a young guy in
Greek armour who was hacking on a straw dummy. A lump
formed in my throat when I realized the dummy was
wearing an orange Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. As we watched,
the guy in armour stabbed the dummy through its belly and
ripped upwards. Straw ﬂew everywhere. The monsters
cheered and howled.
Annabeth stepped away from the window. Her face was
ashen.
420
‘Come on,’ I told her, trying to sound braver than I felt.
‘The sooner we ﬁnd Luke the better.’
At the end of the hallway were double oak doors that
looked like they must lead somewhere important. When we
were ten metres away, Tyson stopped. ‘Voices inside.’
‘You can hear that far?’ I asked.
Tyson closed his eye like he was concentrating hard. Then
his voice changed, becoming a husky approximation of
Luke’s. ‘– the prophecy ourselves. The fools won’t know
which way to turn.’
Before I could react, Tyson’s voice changed again,
becoming deeper and gruﬀer, like the other guy we’d heard
talking to Luke outside the cafeteria. ‘You really think the old
horseman is gone for good?’
Tyson laughed Luke’s laugh. ‘They can’t trust him. Not
with the skeletons in his closet. The poisoning of the tree
was the ﬁnal straw.’
Annabeth shivered. ‘Stop that, Tyson! How do you do that?
It’s creepy.’
Tyson opened his eye and looked puzzled. ‘Just listening.’
‘Keep going,’ I said. ‘What else are they saying?’
Tyson closed his eye again.
He hissed in the gruﬀ man’s voice, ‘Quiet!’ Then Luke’s
voice, whispering, ‘Are you sure?’
‘Yes,’ Tyson said in the gruﬀ voice. ‘Right outside.’
Too late, I realized what was happening.
I just had time to say, ‘Run!’ when the doors of the
stateroom burst open and there was Luke, ﬂanked by two
hairy giants armed with javelins, their bronze tips aimed
right at our chests.
‘Well,’ Luke said with a crooked smile. ‘If it isn’t my two
favourite cousins. Come right in.’
The stateroom was beautiful, and it was horrible.
The beautiful part: huge windows curved along the back
wall, looking out over the stern of the ship. Green sea and
421
blue sky stretched all the way to the horizon. A Persian rug
covered the ﬂoor. Two plush sofas occupied the middle of
the room, with a canopied bed in one corner and a
mahogany dining table in the other. The table was loaded
with food: pizza boxes, bottles of soda and a stack of roast
beef sandwiches on a silver platter.
The horrible part: on a velvet dais at the back of the room
lay a three-metre-long golden casket. A sarcophagus,
engraved with Ancient Greek scenes of cities in ﬂames and
heroes dying grisly deaths. Despite the sunlight streaming
through the windows, the casket made the whole room feel
cold.
‘Well,’ Luke said, spreading his arms proudly. ‘A little nicer
than Cabin Eleven, huh?’
He’d changed since last summer. Instead of Bermuda
shorts and a T-shirt, he wore a button-down shirt, khaki
trousers and leather loafers. His sandy hair, which used to
be so unruly, was now clipped short. He looked like an evil
male model, showing oﬀ what the fashionable college-age
villain was wearing to Harvard this year.
He still had the scar under his eye – a jagged white line
from his battle with a dragon. And propped against the sofa
was his magical sword, Backbiter, glinting strangely with its
half steel, half Celestial bronze blade that could kill both
mortals and monsters.
‘Sit,’ he told us. He waved his hand and three dining
chairs scooted themselves into the centre of the room.
None of us sat.
Luke’s large friends were still pointing their javelins at us.
They looked like twins, but they weren’t human. They stood
about two and a half metres tall, for one thing, and wore
only blue jeans, probably because their enormous chests
were already shag-carpeted with thick brown fur. They had
claws for ﬁngernails, feet like paws. Their noses were
snoutlike, and their teeth were all pointed canines.
422
‘Where are my manners?’ Luke said smoothly. ‘These are
my assistants, Agrius and Oreius. Perhaps you’ve heard of
them.’
I said nothing. Despite the javelins pointed at me, it
wasn’t the bear twins who scared me.
I’d imagined meeting Luke again many times since he’d
tried to kill me last summer. I’d pictured myself boldly
standing up to him, challenging him to a duel. But now that
we were face to face, I could barely stop my hands from
shaking.
‘You don’t know Agrius and Oreius’s story?’ Luke asked.
‘Their mother … well, it’s sad, really. Aphrodite ordered the
young woman to fall in love. She refused and ran to Artemis
for help. Artemis let her become one of her maiden
huntresses, but Aphrodite got her revenge. She bewitched
the young woman into falling in love with a bear. When
Artemis found out, she abandoned the girl in disgust. Typical
of the gods, wouldn’t you say? They ﬁght with one another
and the poor humans get caught in the middle. The girl’s
twin sons here, Agrius and Oreius, have no love for
Olympus. They like half-bloods well enough, though…’
‘For lunch,’ Agrius growled. His gruﬀ voice was the one I’d
heard talking with Luke earlier.
‘Hehe! Hehe!’ His brother Oreius laughed, licking his fur-
lined lips. He kept laughing like he was having an asthmatic
ﬁt until Luke and Agrius both stared at him.
‘Shut up, you idiot!’ Agrius growled. ‘Go punish yourself!’
Oreius whimpered. He trudged over to the corner of the
room, slumped onto a stool, and banged his forehead
against the dining table, making the silver plates rattle.
Luke acted like this was perfectly normal behaviour. He
made himself comfortable on the sofa and propped his feet
up on the coﬀee table. ‘Well, Percy, we let you survive
another year. I hope you appreciated it. How’s your mom?
How’s school?’
‘You poisoned Thalia’s tree.’
423
Luke sighed. ‘Right to the point, eh? Okay, sure I poisoned
the tree. So what?’
‘How could you?’ Annabeth sounded so angry I thought
she’d explode. ‘Thalia saved your life! Our lives! How could
you dishonour her –’
‘I didn’t dishonour her!’ Luke snapped. ‘The gods
dishonoured her, Annabeth! If Thalia were alive, she’d be on
my side.’
‘Liar!’
‘If you knew what was coming, you’d understand –’
‘I understand you want to destroy the camp!’ she yelled.
‘You’re a monster!’
Luke shook his head. ‘The gods have blinded you. Can’t
you imagine a world without them, Annabeth? What good is
that ancient history you study? Three thousand years of
baggage! The West is rotten to the core. It has to be
destroyed. Join me! We can start the world anew. We could
use your intelligence, Annabeth.’
‘Because you have none of your own!’
His eyes narrowed. ‘I know you, Annabeth. You deserve
better than tagging along on some hopeless quest to save
the camp. Half-Blood Hill will be overrun by monsters within
the month. The heroes who survive will have no choice but
to join us or be hunted to extinction. You really want to be
on a losing team … with company like this?’ Luke pointed at
Tyson.
‘Hey!’ I said.
‘Travelling with a Cyclops,’ Luke chided. ‘Talk about
dishonouring Thalia’s memory! I’m surprised at you,
Annabeth. You of all people –’
‘Stop it!’ she shouted.
I didn’t know what Luke was talking about, but Annabeth
buried her head in her hands like she was about to cry.
‘Leave her alone,’ I said. ‘And leave Tyson out of this.’
Luke laughed. ‘Oh, yeah, I heard. Your father claimed him.’
424
I must have looked surprised, because Luke smiled. ‘Yes,
Percy, I know all about that. And about your plan to ﬁnd the
Fleece. What were those coordinates, again … thirty, thirty-
one, seventy-ﬁve, twelve? You see, I still have friends at
camp who keep me posted.’
‘Spies, you mean.’
He shrugged. ‘How many insults from your father can you
stand, Percy? You think he’s grateful to you? You think
Poseidon cares for you any more than he cares for this
monster?’
Tyson clenched his ﬁsts and made a rumbling sound down
in his throat.
Luke just chuckled. ‘The gods are so using you, Percy. Do
you have any idea what’s in store for you if you reach your
sixteenth birthday? Has Chiron even told you the prophecy?’
I wanted to get in Luke’s face and tell him oﬀ, but as
usual, he knew just how to throw me oﬀ balance.
Sixteenth birthday?
I mean, I knew Chiron had received a prophecy from the
Oracle many years ago. I knew part of it was about me. But,
if I reached my sixteenth birthday? I didn’t like the sound of
that.
‘I know what I need to know,’ I managed. ‘Like, who my
enemies are.’
‘Then you’re a fool.’
Tyson smashed the nearest dining chair to splinters. ‘Percy
is not a fool!’
Before I could stop him, he charged Luke. His ﬁsts came
down towards Luke’s head – a double overhead blow that
would’ve knocked a hole in titanium – but the bear twins
intercepted. They each caught one of Tyson’s arms and
stopped him cold. They pushed him back and Tyson
stumbled. He fell to the carpet so hard the deck shook.
‘Too bad, Cyclops,’ Luke said. ‘Looks like my grizzly friends
together are more than a match for your strength. Maybe I
should let them –’
425
‘Luke,’ I cut in. ‘Listen to me. Your father sent us.’
His face turned the colour of pepperoni. ‘Don’t – even –
mention him.’
‘He told us to take this boat. I thought it was just for a
ride, but he sent us here to ﬁnd you. He told me he won’t
give up on you, no matter how angry you are.’
‘Angry?’ Luke roared. ‘Give up on me? He abandoned me,
Percy! I want Olympus destroyed! Every throne crushed to
rubble! You tell Hermes it’s going to happen, too. Each time
a half-blood joins us, the Olympians grow weaker and we
grow stronger. He grows stronger.’ Luke pointed to the gold
sarcophagus.
The box creeped me out, but I was determined not to
show it. ‘So?’ I demanded. ‘What’s so special…’
Then it hit me, what might be inside the sarcophagus. The
temperature in the room seemed to drop twenty degrees.
‘Whoa, you don’t mean –’
‘He is re-forming,’ Luke said. ‘Little by little, we’re calling
his life force out of the pit. With every recruit who pledges
our cause, another small piece appears –’
‘That’s disgusting!’ Annabeth said.
Luke sneered at her. ‘Your mother was born from Zeus’s
split skull, Annabeth. I wouldn’t talk. Soon there will be
enough of the titan lord so that we can make him whole
again. We will piece together a new body for him, a work
worthy of the forges of Hephaestus.’
‘You’re insane,’ Annabeth said.
‘Join us and you’ll be rewarded. We have powerful friends,
sponsors rich enough to buy this cruise ship and much
more. Percy, your mother will never have to work again. You
can buy her a mansion. You can have power, fame –
whatever you want. Annabeth, you can realize your dream
of being an architect. You can build a monument to last a
thousand years. A temple to the lords of the next age!’
‘Go to Tartarus,’ she said.
Luke sighed. ‘A shame.’
426
He picked up something that looked like a TV remote and
pressed a red button. Within seconds the door of the
stateroom opened and two uniformed crew members came
in, armed with nightsticks. They had the same glassy-eyed
look as the other mortals I’d seen, but I had a feeling this
wouldn’t make them any less dangerous in a ﬁght.
‘Ah, good, security,’ Luke said. ‘I’m afraid we have some
stowaways.’
‘Yes, sir,’ they said dreamily.
Luke turned to Oreius. ‘It’s time to feed the Aethiopian
drakon. Take these fools below and show them how it’s
done.’
Oreius grinned stupidly. ‘Hehe! Hehe!’
‘Let me go, too,’ Agrius grumbled. ‘My brother is
worthless. That Cyclops –’
‘Is no threat,’ Luke said. He glanced back at the golden
casket, as if something were troubling him. ‘Agrius, stay
here. We have important matters to discuss.’
‘But –’
‘Oreius, don’t fail me. Stay in the hold to make sure the
drakon is properly fed.’
Oreius prodded us with his javelin and herded us out of
the stateroom, followed by the two human security guards.
As I walked down the corridor with Orieus’s javelin poking
me in the back, I thought about what Luke had said – that
the bear twins together were a match for Tyson’s strength.
But maybe separately…
We exited the corridor amidships and walked across an
open deck lined with lifeboats. I knew the ship well enough
to realize this would be our last look at sunlight. Once we
got to the other side, we’d take the elevator down into the
hold, and that would be it.
I looked at Tyson and said, ‘Now.’
Thank the gods, he understood. He turned and smacked
Oreius ten metres backwards into the swimming pool, right
427
into the middle of the zombie tourist family.
‘Ah!’ the kids yelled in unison. ‘We are not having a blast
in the pool!’
One of the security guards drew his nightstick, but
Annabeth knocked the wind out of him with a well-placed
kick. The other guard ran for the nearest alarm box.
‘Stop him!’ Annabeth yelled, but it was too late.
Just before I banged him on the head with a deckchair, he
hit the alarm.
Red lights ﬂashed. Sirens wailed.
‘Lifeboat!’ I yelled.
We ran for the nearest one.
By the time we got the cover oﬀ, monsters and more
security men were swarming the deck, pushing aside
tourists and waiters with trays of tropical drinks. A guy in
Greek armour drew his sword and charged, but slipped in a
puddle of piña colada. Laistrygonian archers assembled on
the deck above us, notching arrows in their enormous bows.
‘How do you launch this thing?’ screamed Annabeth.
A hellhound leaped at me, but Tyson slammed it aside
with a ﬁre extinguisher.
‘Get in!’ I yelled. I uncapped Riptide and slashed the ﬁrst
volley of arrows out of the air. Any second we would be
overwhelmed.
The lifeboat was hanging over the side of the ship, high
above the water. Annabeth and Tyson were having no luck
with the release pulley.
I jumped in beside them.
‘Hold on!’ I yelled, and I cut the ropes.
A shower of arrows whistled over our heads as we free-fell
towards the ocean.
428
10    We Hitch a Ride with Dead
Confederates
 
‘Flask!’ I screamed as we hurtled towards the water.
‘What? Annabeth must’ve thought I’d lost my mind. She
was holding on to the boat straps for dear life, her hair
ﬂying straight up like a torch.
But Tyson understood. He managed to open my duﬀel bag
and take out Hermes’s magical ﬂask without losing his grip
on it or the boat.
Arrows and javelins whistled past us.
I grabbed the Flask and hoped I was doing the right thing.
‘Hang on!’
‘I am hanging on!’ Annabeth yelled.
‘Tighter!’
I hooked my feet under the boat’s inﬂatable bench, and,
as Tyson grabbed Annabeth and me by the backs of our
shirts, I gave the Flask cap a quarter turn.
Instantly, a white sheet of wind jetted out of the ﬂask and
propelled us sideways, turning our downward plummet into
a forty-ﬁve-degree crash landing.
The wind seemed to laugh as it shot from the ﬂask, like it
was glad to be free. As we hit the ocean, we bumped once,
twice, skipping like a stone, then we were whizzing along
like a speed boat, salt spray in our faces and nothing but
sea ahead.
I heard a wail of outrage from the ship behind us, but we
were already out of weapon range. The Princess Andromeda
faded to the size of a white toy boat in the distance, and
then it was gone.
429
As we raced over the sea, Annabeth and I tried to send an
Iris-message to Chiron. We ﬁgured it was important we let
somebody know what Luke was doing, and we didn’t know
who else to trust.
The wind from the Flask stirred up a nice sea spray that
made a rainbow in the sunlight – perfect for an Iris-message
– but our connection was still poor. When Annabeth threw a
gold drachma into the mist and prayed for the rainbow
goddess to show us Chiron, his face appeared all right, but
there was some kind of weird strobe light ﬂashing in the
background and rock music blaring, like he was at a dance
club.
We told him about sneaking away from camp, and Luke
and the Princess Andromeda and the golden box for
Kronos’s remains, but between the noise on his end and the
rushing wind and water on our end, I’m not sure how much
he heard.
‘Percy,’ Chiron yelled, ‘you have to watch out for –’
His voice was drowned out by loud shouting behind him –
a bunch of voices whooping it up like Comanche warriors.
‘What?’ I yelled.
‘Curse my relatives!’ Chiron ducked as a plate ﬂew over
his head and shattered somewhere out of sight. ‘Annabeth,
you shouldn’t have let Percy leave camp! But if you do get
the Fleece –’
‘Yeah, baby!’ somebody behind Chiron yelled. ‘Woo-
hoooooo!’
The music got cranked up, subwoofers so loud it made our
boat vibrate.
‘– Miami,’ Chiron was yelling. ‘I’ll try to keep watch –’
Our misty screen smashed apart like someone on the
other side had thrown a bottle at it, and Chiron was gone.
An hour later we spotted land – a long stretch of beach lined
with high-rise hotels. The water became crowded with
ﬁshing boats and tankers. A coastguard cruiser passed on
430
our starboard side, then turned like it wanted a second look.
I guess it isn’t every day they see a yellow lifeboat with no
engine going a hundred knots an hour, manned by three
kids.
‘That’s Virginia Beach!’ Annabeth said as we approached
the shoreline. ‘Oh my gods, how did the Princess
Andromeda travel so far overnight? That’s like –’
‘Five hundred and thirty nautical miles,’ I said.
She stared at me. ‘How did you know that?’
‘I – I’m not sure.’
Annabeth thought for a moment. ‘Percy, what’s our
position?’
‘Thirty-six degrees, forty-four minutes north, seventy-six
degrees, two minutes west,’ I said immediately. Then I
shook my head. ‘Whoa. How did I know that?’
‘Because of your dad,’ Annabeth guessed. ‘When you’re at
sea, you have perfect bearings. That is so cool.’
I wasn’t sure about that. I didn’t want to be a human GPS
unit. But before I could say anything, Tyson tapped my
shoulder. ‘Other boat is coming.’
I looked back. The coastguard vessel was deﬁnitely on our
tail now. Its lights were ﬂashing and it was gaining speed.
‘We can’t let them catch us,’ I said. ‘They’ll ask too many
questions.’
‘Keep going into Chesapeake Bay,’ Annabeth said. ‘I know
a place we can hide.’
I didn’t ask what she meant, or how she knew the area so
well. I risked loosening the Flask cap a little more, and a
fresh burst of wind sent us rocketing around the northern tip
of Virginia Beach into Chesapeake Bay. The coastguard boat
fell further and further behind. We didn’t slow down until the
shores of the bay narrowed on either side, and I realized
we’d entered the mouth of a river.
I could feel the change from salt water to fresh water.
Suddenly I was tired and frazzled, like I was coming down oﬀ
a sugar high. I didn’t know where I was any more, or which
431
way to steer the boat. It was a good thing Annabeth was
directing me.
‘There,’ she said. ‘Past that sandbar.’
We veered into a swampy area choked with marsh grass. I
beached the lifeboat at the foot of a giant cypress.
Vine-covered trees loomed above us. Insects chirred in the
woods. The air was muggy and hot, and steam curled oﬀ the
river. Basically, it wasn’t Manhattan, and I didn’t like it.
‘Come on,’ Annabeth said. ‘It’s just down the bank.’
‘What is?’ I asked.
‘Just follow.’ She grabbed a duﬀel bag. ‘And we’d better
cover the boat. We don’t want to draw attention.’
After burying the lifeboat with branches, Tyson and I
followed Annabeth along the shore, our feet sinking in red
mud. A snake slithered past my shoe and disappeared into
the grass.
‘Not a good place,’ Tyson said. He swatted the mosquitoes
that were forming a buﬀet queue on his arm.
After another few minutes, Annabeth said, ‘Here.’
All I saw was a patch of brambles. Then Annabeth moved
aside a woven circle of branches, like a door, and I realized I
was looking into a camouﬂaged shelter.
The inside was big enough for three, even with Tyson
being the third. The walls were woven from plant material,
like a Native American hut, but they looked pretty
waterproof. Stacked in the corner was everything you could
want for a campout – sleeping bags, blankets, an ice chest
and a kerosene lamp. There were demigod provisions, too –
bronze javelin tips, a quiver full of arrows, an extra sword
and a box of ambrosia. The place smelled musty, like it had
been vacant for a long time.
‘A half-blood hideout.’ I looked at Annabeth in awe. ‘You
made this place?’
‘Thalia and I,’ she said quietly. ‘And Luke.’
That shouldn’t have bothered me. I mean, I knew Thalia
and Luke had taken care of Annabeth when she was little. I
432
knew the three of them had been runaways together, hiding
from monsters, surviving on their own before Grover found
them and tried to get them to Half-Blood Hill. But whenever
Annabeth talked about the time she’d spent with them, I
kind of felt … I don’t know. Uncomfortable?
No. That’s not the word.
The word was jealous.
‘So…’ I said. ‘You don’t think Luke will look for us here?’
She shook her head. ‘We made a dozen safe houses like
this. I doubt Luke even remembers where they are. Or
cares.’
She threw herself down on the blankets and started going
through her duﬀel bag. Her body language made it pretty
clear she didn’t want to talk.
‘Um, Tyson?’ I said. ‘Would you mind scouting around
outside? Like, look for a wilderness convenience store or
something?’
‘Convenience store?’
‘Yeah, for snacks. Powdered doughnuts or something. Just
don’t go too far.’
‘Powdered doughnuts,’ Tyson said earnestly. ‘I will look for
powdered doughnuts in the wilderness.’ He headed outside
and started calling, ‘Here, doughnuts!’
Once he was gone, I sat down across from Annabeth.
‘Hey, I’m sorry about, you know, seeing Luke.’
‘It’s not your fault.’ She unsheathed her knife and started
cleaning the blade with a rag.
‘He let us go too easily,’ I said.
I hoped I’d been imagining it, but Annabeth nodded. ‘I was
thinking the same thing. What we overheard him say about
a gamble, and “they’ll take the bait” … I think he was
talking about us.’
‘The Fleece is the bait? Or Grover?’
She studied the edge of her knife. ‘I don’t know, Percy.
Maybe he wants the Fleece for himself. Maybe he’s hoping
433
we’ll do the hard work and then he can steal it from us. I
just can’t believe he would poison the tree.’
‘What did he mean,’ I asked, ‘that Thalia would’ve been
on his side?’
‘He’s wrong.’
‘You don’t sound sure.’
Annabeth glared at me, and I started to wish I hadn’t
asked her about this while she was holding a knife.
‘Percy, you know who you remind me of most? Thalia. You
guys are so much alike it’s scary. I mean, either you
would’ve been best friends or you would’ve strangled each
other.’
‘Let’s go with “best friends.” ’
‘Thalia got angry with her dad sometimes. So do you.
Would you turn against Olympus because of that?’
I stared at the quiver of arrows in the corner. ‘No.’
‘Okay, then. Neither would she. Luke’s wrong.’ Annabeth
stuck her knife blade into the dirt.
I wanted to ask her about the prophecy Luke had
mentioned and what it had to do with my sixteenth birthday.
But I ﬁgured she wouldn’t tell me. Chiron had made it pretty
clear that I wasn’t allowed to hear it until the gods decided
otherwise.
‘So what did Luke mean about Cyclopes?’ I asked. ‘He said
you of all people –’
‘I know what he said. He … he was talking about the real
reason Thalia died.’
I waited, not sure what to say.
Annabeth drew a shaky breath. ‘You can never trust a
Cyclops, Percy. Six years ago, on the night Grover was
leading us to Half-Blood Hill –’
She was interrupted when the door of the hut creaked
open. Tyson crawled in.
‘Powdered doughnuts!’ he said proudly, holding up a
pastry box.
434
Annabeth stared at him. ‘Where did you get that? We’re in
the middle of the wilderness. There’s nothing around for –’
‘Fifteen metres,’ Tyson said. ‘Monster Doughnut shop –
just over the hill!’
‘This is bad,’ Annabeth muttered.
We were crouching behind a tree, staring at the doughnut
shop in the middle of the woods. It looked brand new, with
brightly lit windows, a parking area and a little road leading
oﬀ into the forest, but there was nothing else around, and
no cars parked in the lot. We could see one employee
reading a magazine behind the cash register. That was it.
On the store’s awning, in huge black letters that even I
could read, it said:
MONSTER DOUGHNUT
A cartoon ogre was taking a bite out of the O in MONSTER.
The 
place 
smelled 
good, 
like 
fresh-baked 
chocolate
doughnuts.
‘This shouldn’t be here,’ Annabeth whispered. ‘It’s wrong.’
‘What?’ I asked. ‘It’s a doughnut shop.’
‘Shhh!’
‘Why are we whispering? Tyson went in and bought a
dozen. Nothing happened to him.’
‘He’s a monster.’
‘Aw, c’mon, Annabeth. Monster Doughnut doesn’t mean
monsters! It’s a chain. We’ve got them in New York.’
‘A chain,’ she agreed. ‘And don’t you think it’s strange
that one appeared immediately after you told Tyson to get
doughnuts? Right here in the middle of the woods?’
I thought about it. It did seem a little weird, but, I mean,
doughnut shops weren’t real high on my list of sinister
forces.
‘It could be a nest,’ Annabeth explained.
435
Tyson whimpered. I doubt he understood what Annabeth
was saying any better than I did, but her tone was making
him nervous. He’d ploughed through half a dozen doughnuts
from his box and was getting powdered sugar all over his
face.
‘A nest for what?’ I asked.
‘Haven’t you ever wondered how franchise stores pop up
so fast?’ she asked. ‘One day there’s nothing and then the
next day – boom, there’s a new burger place or a coﬀee
shop or whatever? First a single store, then two, then four –
exact replicas spreading across the country?’
‘Um, no. Never thought about it.’
‘Percy, some of the chains multiply so fast because all
their locations are magically linked to the life force of a
monster. Some children of Hermes ﬁgured out how to do it
back in the 1950s. They breed –’
She froze.
‘What?’ I demanded. ‘They breed what?’
‘No – sudden – moves,’ Annabeth said, like her life
depended on it. ‘Very slowly, turn around.’
Then I heard it: a scraping noise, like something large
dragging its belly through the leaves.
I turned and saw a rhino-size thing moving through the
shadows of the trees. It was hissing, its front half writhing in
all diﬀerent directions. I couldn’t understand what I was
seeing at ﬁrst. Then I realized the thing had multiple necks –
at least seven, each topped with a hissing reptilian head. Its
skin was leathery, and under each neck it wore a plastic bib
that read: I’M A MONSTER DOUGHNUT KID!
I took out my ballpoint pen, but Annabeth locked eyes
with me – a silent warning. Not yet.
I understood. A lot of monsters have terrible eyesight. It
was possible the Hydra might pass us by. But if I uncapped
my sword now, the bronze glow would certainly get its
attention.
We waited.
436
The Hydra was only a metre or so away. It seemed to be
sniﬃng the ground and the trees like it was hunting for
something. Then I noticed that two of the heads were
ripping apart a piece of yellow canvas – one of our duﬀel
bags. The thing had already been to our campsite. It was
following our scent.
My heart pounded. I’d seen a stuﬀed Hydra-head trophy
at camp before, but that did nothing to prepare me for the
real thing. Each head was diamond-shaped, like 
a
rattlesnake’s, but the mouths were lined with jagged rows of
sharklike teeth.
Tyson was trembling. He stepped back and accidentally
snapped a twig. Immediately, all seven heads turned
towards us and hissed.
‘Scatter!’ Annabeth yelled. She dived to the right.
I rolled to the left. One of the Hydra heads spat an arc of
green liquid that shot past my shoulder and splashed
against an elm. The trunk smoked and began to
disintegrate. The whole tree toppled straight towards Tyson,
who still hadn’t moved, petriﬁed by the monster that was
now right in front of him.
‘Tyson!’ I tackled him with all my might, knocking him
aside just as the Hydra lunged and the tree crashed on top
of two of its heads.
The Hydra stumbled backwards, yanking its heads free
and wailing in outrage at the fallen tree. All seven heads
shot acid, and the elm melted into a steaming pool of muck.
‘Move!’ I told Tyson. I ran to one side and uncapped
Riptide, hoping to draw the monster’s attention.
It worked.
The sight of celestial bronze is hateful to most monsters.
As soon as my glowing blade appeared, the Hydra whipped
towards it with all its heads, hissing and baring its teeth.
The good news: Tyson was momentarily out of danger. The
bad news: I was about to be melted into a puddle of goo.
437
One of the heads snapped at me experimentally. Without
thinking, I swung my sword.
‘No!’ Annabeth yelled.
Too late. I sliced the Hydra’s head clean oﬀ. It rolled away
into the grass, leaving a ﬂailing stump, which immediately
stopped bleeding and began to swell like a balloon.
In a matter of seconds the wounded neck split into two
necks, each of which grew a full-size head. Now I was
looking at an eight-headed Hydra.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth scolded. ‘You just opened another
Monster Doughnut shop somewhere!’
I dodged a spray of acid. ‘I’m about to die and you’re
worried about that? How do we kill it?’
‘Fire!’ Annabeth said. ‘We have to have ﬁre!’
As soon as she said that, I remembered the story. The
Hydra’s heads would only stop multiplying if we burned the
stumps before they regrew. That’s what Heracles had done,
anyway. But we had no ﬁre.
I backed up towards the river. The Hydra followed.
Annabeth moved in on my left and tried to distract one of
the heads, parrying its teeth with her knife, but another
head swung sideways like a club and knocked her into the
muck.
‘No hitting my friends!’ Tyson charged in, putting himself
between the Hydra and Annabeth. As Annabeth got to her
feet, Tyson started smashing at the monster heads with his
ﬁsts so fast it reminded me of the whack-a-mole game at
the arcade. But even Tyson couldn’t fend oﬀ the Hydra
forever.
We kept inching backwards, dodging acid splashes and
deﬂecting snapping heads without cutting them oﬀ, but I
knew we were only postponing our deaths. Eventually, we
would make a mistake and the thing would kill us.
Then I heard a strange sound – a chug-chug-chug that at
ﬁrst I thought was my heartbeat. It was so powerful it made
the riverbank shake.
438
‘What’s that noise?’ Annabeth shouted, keeping her eyes
on the Hydra.
‘Steam engine,’ Tyson said.
‘What? I ducked as the Hydra spat acid over my head.
Then from the river behind us, a familiar female voice
shouted, ‘There! Prepare the thirty-two-pounder!’
I didn’t dare look away from the Hydra, but if that was
who I thought it was behind us, I ﬁgured we now had
enemies on two fronts.
A gravelly male voice said, ‘They’re too close, m’lady!’
‘Damn the heroes!’ the girl said. ‘Full steam ahead!’
‘Aye, m’lady.’
‘Fire at will, Captain!’
Annabeth understood what was happening a split second
before I did. She yelled, ‘Hit the dirt!’ and we dived for the
ground as an earth-shattering BOOM echoed from the river.
There was a ﬂash of light, a column of smoke and the Hydra
exploded right in front of us, showering us with nasty green
slime that vaporized as soon as it hit, the way monster guts
tend to do.
‘Gross!’ screamed Annabeth.
‘Steamship!’ yelled Tyson.
I stood, coughing from the cloud of gunpowder smoke that
was rolling across the banks.
Chugging towards us down the river was the strangest
ship I’d ever seen. It rode low in the water like a submarine,
its deck plated with iron. In the middle was a trapezoid-
shaped casemate with slats on each side for cannons. A ﬂag
waved from the top – a wild boar and spear on a blood-red
ﬁeld. Lining the deck were zombies in grey uniforms – dead
soldiers with shimmering faces that only partially covered
their skulls, like the ghouls I’d seen in the Underworld
guarding Hades’s palace.
The ship was an ironclad. A Civil War battle cruiser. I could
just make out the name along the prow in moss-covered
letters: CSS Birmingham.
439
And standing next to the smoking cannon that had almost
killed us, wearing full Greek battle armour, was Clarisse.
‘Losers,’ she sneered. ‘But I suppose I have to rescue you.
Come aboard.’
440
11    Clarisse Blows Up Everything
 
‘You are in so much trouble,’ Clarisse said.
We’d just ﬁnished a ship tour we didn’t want, through dark
rooms overcrowded with dead sailors. We’d seen the coal
bunker, the boilers and engine, which huﬀed and groaned
like it would explode any minute. We’d seen the pilot house
and the powder magazine and gunnery deck (Clarisse’s
favourite) with two Dahlgren smoothbore cannons on the
port and starboard sides and a Brooke nine-inch riﬂed gun
fore and aft – all specially reﬁtted to ﬁre celestial bronze
cannonballs.
Everywhere we went, dead Confederate sailors stared at
us, their ghostly bearded faces shimmering over their skulls.
They approved of Annabeth because she told them she was
from Virginia. They were interested in me, too, because my
name was Jackson – like the Southern general – but then I
ruined it by telling them I was from New York. They all
hissed and muttered curses about Yankees.
Tyson was terriﬁed of them. All through the tour, he
insisted Annabeth hold his hand, which she didn’t look too
thrilled about.
Finally, we were escorted to dinner. The CSS Birmingham
captain’s quarters were about the size of a walk-in closet,
but still much bigger than any other room on board. The
table was set with white linen and china. Peanut butter and
jelly sandwiches, potato chips and Dr Peppers were served
by skeletal crewmen. I didn’t want to eat anything served by
ghosts, but my hunger overruled my fear.
441
‘Tantalus expelled you for eternity,’ Clarisse told us
smugly. ‘Mr D said if any of you show your face at camp
again, he’ll turn you into squirrels and run you over with his
SUV.’
‘Did they give you this ship?’ I asked.
‘Course not. My father did.’
‘Ares?’
Clarisse sneered. ‘You think your daddy is the only one
with sea power? The spirits on the losing side of every war
owe a tribute to Ares. That’s their curse for being defeated. I
prayed to my father for a naval transport and here it is.
These guys will do anything I tell them. Won’t you, Captain?’
The captain stood behind her looking stiﬀ and angry. His
glowing green eyes ﬁxed me with a hungry stare. ‘If it
means an end to this infernal war, ma’am, peace at last,
we’ll do anything. Destroy anyone.’
Clarisse smiled. ‘Destroy anyone. I like that.’
Tyson gulped.
‘Clarisse,’ Annabeth said, ‘Luke might be after the Fleece,
too. We saw him. He’s got the coordinates and he’s heading
south. He has a cruise ship full of monsters –’
‘Good! I’ll blow him out of the water.’
‘You don’t understand,’ Annabeth said. ‘We have to
combine forces. Let us help you –’
‘No!’ Clarisse pounded the table. ‘This is my quest, smart
girl! Finally I get to be the hero, and you two will not steal
my chance.’
‘Where are your cabin mates?’ I asked. ‘You were allowed
to take two friends with you, weren’t you?’
‘They didn’t … I let them stay behind. To protect the
camp.’
‘You mean even the people in your own cabin wouldn’t
help you?’
‘Shut up, Prissy! I don’t need them! Or you!’
‘Clarisse,’ I said, ‘Tantalus is using you. He doesn’t care
about the camp. He’d love to see it destroyed. He’s setting
442
you up to fail.’
‘No! I don’t care what the Oracle –’ She stopped herself.
‘What?’ I said. ‘What did the Oracle tell you?’
‘Nothing.’ Clarisse’s ears turned pink. ‘All you need to
know is that I’m ﬁnishing this quest and you’re not helping.
On the other hand, I can’t let you go…’
‘So we’re prisoners?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Guests. For now.’ Clarisse propped her feet up on the
white linen tablecloth and opened another Dr Pepper.
‘Captain, take them below. Assign them hammocks on the
berth deck. If they don’t mind their manners, show them
how we deal with enemy spies.’
The dream came as soon as I fell asleep.
Grover was sitting at his loom, desperately unravelling his
wedding train, when the boulder door rolled aside and the
Cyclops bellowed, ‘Aha!’
Grover yelped. ‘Dear! I didn’t – you were so quiet!’
‘Unravelling!’ Polyphemus roared. ‘So that’s the problem!’
‘Oh, no. I-I wasn’t –’
‘Come!’ Polyphemus grabbed Grover around the waist and
half carried, half dragged him through the tunnels of the
cave. Grover struggled to keep his high heels on his hooves.
His veil kept tilting on his head, threatening to come oﬀ.
The Cyclops pulled him into a warehouse-size cavern
decorated with sheep junk. There was a wool-covered Lay-Z-
Boy recliner and a wool-covered television set, crude
bookshelves loaded with sheep collectibles – coﬀee mugs
shaped like sheep faces, plaster ﬁgurines of sheep, sheep
board games and picture books and action ﬁgures. The ﬂoor
was littered with piles of sheep bones, and other bones that
didn’t look exactly like sheep – the bones of satyrs who’d
come to the island looking for Pan.
Polyphemus set Grover down only long enough to move
another huge boulder. Daylight streamed into the cave, and
Grover whimpered with longing. Fresh air!
443
The Cyclops dragged him outside to a hilltop overlooking
the most beautiful island I’d ever seen.
It was shaped kind of like a saddle cut in half by an axe.
There were lush green hills on either side and a wide valley
in the middle, split by a deep chasm that was spanned by a
rope bridge. Beautiful streams rolled to the edge of the
canyon and dropped oﬀ in rainbow-coloured waterfalls.
Parrots ﬂuttered in the trees. Pink and purple ﬂowers
bloomed on the bushes. Hundreds of sheep grazed in the
meadows, their wool glinting strangely like copper and silver
coins.
And at the centre of the island, right next to the rope
bridge, was an enormous twisted oak tree with something
glittering in its lowest bough.
The Golden Fleece.
Even in a dream, I could feel its power radiating across the
island, making the grass greener, the ﬂowers more
beautiful. I could almost smell the nature magic at work. I
could only imagine how powerful the scent would be for a
satyr.
Grover whimpered.
‘Yes,’ Polyphemus said proudly. ‘See over there? Fleece is
the prize of my collection! Stole it from heroes long ago, and
ever since – free food! Satyrs come from all over the world,
like moths to ﬂame. Satyrs good eating! And now –’
Polyphemus scooped up a wicked set of bronze shears.
Grover yelped, but Polyphemus just picked up the nearest
sheep like it was a stuﬀed animal and shaved oﬀ its wool.
He handed a ﬂuﬀy mass of it to Grover.
‘Put that on the spinning wheel!’ he said proudly. ‘Magic.
Cannot be unravelled.’
‘Oh … well…’
‘Poor Honeypie!’ Polyphemus grinned. ‘Bad weaver. Ha-
ha! Not to worry. That thread will solve problem. Finish
wedding train by tomorrow!’
‘Isn’t that … thoughtful of you!’
444
‘Hehe.’
‘But-but, dear,’ Grover gulped, ‘what if someone were to
rescue – I mean attack this island?’ Grover looked straight at
me, and I knew he was asking for my beneﬁt. ‘What would
keep them from marching right up here to your cave?’
‘Wifey scared! So cute! Not to worry. Polyphemus has
state-of-the-art security system. Have to get through my
pets.’
‘Pets?’
Grover looked across the island, but there was nothing to
see except sheep grazing peacefully in the meadows.
‘And then,’ Polyphemus growled, ‘they would have to get
through me!’
He pounded his ﬁst against the nearest rock, which
cracked and split in half. ‘Now, come!’ he shouted. ‘Back to
the cave.’
Grover looked about ready to cry – so close to freedom,
but so hopelessly far. Tears welled in his eyes as the boulder
door rolled shut, sealing him once again in the stinky torch-
lit dankness of the Cyclops’s cave.
I woke to alarm bells ringing throughout the ship.
The captain’s gravelly voice: ‘All hands on deck! Find Lady
Clarisse! Where is that girl?’
Then his ghostly face appeared above me. ‘Get up,
Yankee. Your friends are already above. We are approaching
the entrance.’
‘The entrance to what?’
He gave me a skeletal smile. ‘The Sea of Monsters, of
course.’
I stuﬀed my few belongings that had survived the Hydra into
a sailor’s canvas knapsack and slung it over my shoulder. I
had a sneaking suspicion that one way or another I would
not be spending another night aboard the CSS Birmingham.
445
I was on my way upstairs when something made me
freeze. A presence nearby – something familiar and
unpleasant. For no particular reason, I felt like picking a
ﬁght. I wanted to punch a dead Confederate. The last time
I’d felt like that kind of anger…
Instead of going up, I crept to the edge of the ventilation
grate and peered down into the boiler deck.
Clarisse was standing right below me, talking to an image
that shimmered in the steam from the boilers – a muscular
man in black leather biker clothes, with a military haircut,
red-tinted sunglasses and a knife strapped to his side.
My ﬁsts clenched. It was my least favourite Olympian:
Ares, the god of war.
‘I don’t want excuses, little girl!’ he growled.
‘Y-yes, Father,’ Clarisse mumbled.
‘You don’t want to see me mad, do you?’
‘No, Father.’
‘No, Father! Ares mimicked. ‘You’re pathetic. I should’ve
let one of my sons take this quest.’
‘I’ll succeed!’ Clarisse promised, her voice trembling. ‘I’ll
make you proud.’
‘You’d better,’ he warned. ‘You asked me for this quest,
girl. If you let that slimeball Jackson kid steal it from you –’
‘But the Oracle said –’
‘I DON’T CARE WHAT IT SAID!’ Ares bellowed with such
force that his image shimmered. ‘You will succeed. And if
you don’t…’
He raised his ﬁst. Even though he was only a ﬁgure in the
steam, Clarisse ﬂinched.
‘Do we understand each other?’ Ares growled.
The alarm bells rang again. I heard voices coming towards
me, oﬃcers yelling orders to ready the cannons.
I crept back from the ventilation grate and made my way
upstairs to join Annabeth and Tyson on the spar deck.
‘What’s wrong?’ Annabeth asked me. ‘Another dream?’
446
I nodded, but I didn’t say anything. I didn’t know what to
think about what I’d seen downstairs. It bothered me almost
as much as the dream about Grover.
Clarisse came up the stairs right after me. I tried not to
look at her.
She grabbed a pair of binoculars from a zombie oﬃcer and
peered towards the horizon. ‘At last. Captain, full steam
ahead!’
I looked in the same direction as she was, but I couldn’t
see much. The sky was overcast. The air was hazy and
humid, like steam from an iron. If I squinted real hard, I
could just make out a couple of dark fuzzy splotches in the
distance.
My nautical senses told me we were somewhere oﬀ the
coast of northern Florida, so we’d come a long way
overnight, further than any mortal ship should’ve been able
to travel.
The engine groaned as we increased speed.
Tyson muttered nervously, ‘Too much strain on the
pistons. Not meant for deep water.’
I wasn’t sure how he knew that, but it made me nervous.
After a few more minutes, the dark splotches ahead of us
came into focus. To the north, a huge mass of rock rose out
of the sea – an island with cliﬀs at least thirty metres tall.
About half a mile south of that, the other patch of darkness
was a storm brewing. The sky and sea boiled together in a
roaring mass.
‘Hurricane?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ Clarisse said. ‘Charybdis.’
Annabeth paled. ‘Are you crazy?’
‘Only way into the Sea of Monsters. Straight between
Charybdis and her sister Scylla.’ Clarisse pointed to the top
of the cliﬀs, and I got the feeling something lived up there
that I did not want to meet.
‘What do you mean the only way?’ I asked. ‘The sea is
wide open! Just sail around them.’
447
Clarisse rolled her eyes. ‘Don’t you know anything? If I
tried to sail around them, they would just appear in my path
again. If you want to get into the Sea of Monsters, you have
to sail through them.’
‘What about the Clashing Rocks?’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s
another gateway. Jason used it.’
‘I can’t blow apart rocks with my cannons,’ Clarisse said.
‘Monsters, on the other hand…’
‘You are crazy,’ Annabeth decided.
‘Watch and learn, Wise Girl.’ Clarisse turned to the
captain. ‘Set course for Charybdis!’
‘Aye, m’lady.’
The engine groaned, the iron plating rattled, and the ship
began to pick up speed.
‘Clarisse,’ I said, ‘Charybdis sucks up the sea. Isn’t that
the story?’
‘And spits it back out again, yeah.’
‘What about Scylla?’
‘She lives in a cave, up on those cliﬀs. If we get too close,
her snaky heads will come down and start plucking sailors
oﬀ the ship.’
‘Choose Scylla then,’ I said. ‘Everybody goes below deck
and we chug right past.’
‘No!’ Clarisse insisted. ‘If Scylla doesn’t get her easy
meat, she might pick up the whole ship. Besides, she’s too
high to make a good target. My cannon can’t shoot straight
up. Charybdis just sits there at the centre of her whirlpool.
We’re going to steam straight towards her, train our guns on
her, and blow her to Tartarus!’
She said it with such relish I almost wanted to believe her.
The engine hummed. The boilers were heating up so
much I could feel the deck getting warm beneath my feet.
The smokestacks billowed. The red Ares ﬂag whipped in the
wind.
As we got closer to the monsters, the sound of Charybdis
got louder and louder – a horrible wet roar like the galaxy’s
448
biggest toilet being ﬂushed. Every time Charybdis inhaled,
the ship shuddered and lurched forward. Every time she
exhaled, we rose in the water and were buﬀeted by three-
metre waves.
I tried to time the whirlpool. As near as I could ﬁgure, it
took Charybdis about three minutes to suck up and destroy
everything within a half-mile radius. To avoid her, we would
have to skirt right next to Scylla’s cliﬀs. And as bad as Scylla
might be, those cliﬀs were looking awfully good to me.
Undead sailors calmly went about their business on the
spar deck. I guess they’d fought a losing cause before, so
this didn’t bother them. Or maybe they didn’t care about
getting destroyed because they were already deceased.
Neither thought made me feel any better.
Annabeth stood next to me, gripping the rail. ‘You still
have your Flask full of wind?’
I nodded. ‘But it’s too dangerous to use with a whirlpool
like that. More wind might just make things worse.’
‘What about controlling the water?’ she asked. ‘You’re
Poseidon’s son. You’ve done it before.’
She was right. I closed my eyes and tried to calm the sea,
but I couldn’t concentrate. Charybdis was too loud and
powerful. The waves wouldn’t respond.
‘I-I can’t,’ I said miserably.
‘We need a backup plan,’ Annabeth said. ‘This isn’t going
to work.’
‘Annabeth is right,’ Tyson said. ‘Engine’s no good.’
‘What do you mean?’ she asked.
‘Pressure. Pistons need ﬁxing.’
Before he could explain, the cosmic toilet ﬂushed with a
mighty roaaar! The ship lurched forward and I was thrown to
the deck. We were in the whirlpool.
‘Full reverse!’ Clarisse screamed above the noise. The sea
churned around us, waves crashing over the deck. The iron
plating was now so hot it steamed. ‘Get us within ﬁring
range! Make ready starboard cannons!’
449
Dead Confederates rushed back and forth. The propeller
grinded into reverse, trying to slow the ship, but we kept
sliding towards the centre of the vortex.
A zombie sailor burst out of the hold and ran to Clarisse.
His grey uniform was smoking. His beard was on ﬁre. ‘Boiler
room overheating, ma’am! She’s going to blow!’
‘Well, get down there and ﬁx it!’
‘Can’t!’ the sailor yelled. ‘We’re vaporizing in the heat.’
Clarisse pounded the side of the casemate. ‘All I need is a
few more minutes! Just enough to get in range!’
‘We’re going in too fast,’ the captain said grimly. ‘Prepare
yourself for death.’
‘No!’ Tyson bellowed. ‘I can ﬁx it.’
Clarisse looked at him incredulously. ‘You?’
‘He’s a Cyclops,’ Annabeth said. ‘He’s immune to ﬁre. And
he knows mechanics.’
‘Go!’ yelled Clarisse.
‘Tyson, no!’ I grabbed his arm. ‘It’s too dangerous!’
He patted my hand. ‘Only way, brother.’ His expression
was determined – conﬁdent, even. I’d never seen him look
like this before. ‘I will ﬁx it. Be right back.’
As I watched him follow the smouldering sailor down the
hatch, I had a terrible feeling. I wanted to run after him, but
the ship lurched again – and then I saw Charybdis.
She appeared only a few hundred metres away, through a
swirl of mist and smoke and water. The ﬁrst thing I noticed
was the reef – a black crag of coral with a ﬁg tree clinging to
the top, an oddly peaceful thing in the middle of a
maelstrom. All around it, water curved into a funnel, like
light around a black hole. Then I saw the horrible thing
anchored to the reef just below the waterline – an enormous
mouth with slimy lips and mossy teeth the size of rowboats.
And worse, the teeth had braces, bands of corroded
scummy metal with pieces of ﬁsh and driftwood and ﬂoating
garbage stuck between them.
450
Charybdis was an orthodontist’s nightmare. She was
nothing but a huge black maw with bad teeth alignment and
a serious overbite, and she’d done nothing for centuries but
eat without brushing after meals. As I watched, the entire
sea around her was sucked into the void – sharks, schools of
ﬁsh, a giant squid. And I realized that in a few seconds, the
CSS Birmingham would be next.
‘Lady Clarisse,’ the captain shouted. ‘Starboard and
forward guns are in range!’
‘Fire!’ Clarisse ordered.
Three rounds were blasted into the monster’s maw. One
blew oﬀ the edge of an incisor. Another disappeared into her
gullet. The third hit one of Charybdis’s retaining bands and
shot back at us, snapping the Ares ﬂag oﬀ its pole.
‘Again!’ Clarisse ordered. The gunners reloaded, but I
knew it was hopeless. We would have to pound the monster
a hundred more times to do any real damage, and we didn’t
have that long. We were being sucked in too fast.
Then the vibrations in the deck changed. The hum of the
engine got stronger and steadier. The ship shuddered and
we started pulling away from the mouth.
‘Tyson did it!’ Annabeth said.
‘Wait!’ Clarisse said. ‘We need to stay close!’
‘We’ll die!’ I said. ‘We have to move away.’
I gripped the rail as the ship fought against the suction.
The broken Ares ﬂag raced past us and lodged in
Charybdis’s braces. We weren’t making much progress, but
at least we were holding our own. Tyson had somehow given
us just enough juice to keep the ship from being sucked in.
Suddenly, the mouth snapped shut. The sea died to
absolute calm. Water washed over Charybdis.
Then, just as quickly as it had closed, the mouth exploded
open, spitting out a wall of water, ejecting everything
inedible, including our cannonballs, one of which slammed
into the side of the CSS Birmingham with a ding like the bell
on a carnival game.
451
We were thrown backwards on a wave that must’ve been
ﬁfteen metres high. I used all of my willpower to keep the
ship from capsizing, but we were still spinning out of control,
hurtling towards the cliﬀs on the opposite side of the strait.
Another smouldering sailor burst out of the hold. He
stumbled 
into 
Clarisse, 
almost 
knocking 
them 
both
overboard. ‘The engine is about to blow!’
‘Where’s Tyson?’ I demanded.
‘Still down there,’ the sailor said. ‘Holding it together
somehow, though I don’t know for how much longer.’
The captain said, ‘We have to abandon ship.’
‘No!’ Clarisse yelled.
‘We have no choice, m’lady. The hull is already cracking
apart! She can’t –’
He never ﬁnished his sentence. Quick as lightning,
something brown and green shot from the sky, snatched up
the captain, and lifted him away. All that was left were his
leather boots.
‘Scylla!’ a sailor yelled, as another column of reptilian
ﬂesh shot from the cliﬀs and snapped him up. It happened
so fast it was like watching a laser beam rather than a
monster. I couldn’t even make out the thing’s face, just a
ﬂash of teeth and scales.
I uncapped Riptide and tried to swipe at the monster as it
carried oﬀ another deckhand, but I was way too slow.
‘Everyone get below!’ I yelled.
‘We can’t!’ Clarisse drew her own sword. ‘Below deck is in
ﬂames.’
‘Lifeboats!’ Annabeth said. ‘Quick!’
‘They’ll never get clear of the cliﬀs,’ Clarisse said. ‘We’ll
all be eaten.’
‘We have to try. Percy, the Flask.’
‘I can’t leave Tyson!’
‘We have to get the boats ready!’
Clarisse took Annabeth’s command. She and a few of her
undead sailors uncovered one of the two emergency
452
rowboats while Scylla’s heads rained from the sky like a
meteor shower with teeth, picking oﬀ Confederate sailors
one after another.
‘Get the other boat.’ I threw Annabeth the Flask. ‘I’ll get
Tyson.’
‘You can’t!’ she said. ‘The heat will kill you!’
I didn’t listen. I ran for the boiler room hatch, when
suddenly my feet weren’t touching the deck any more. I was
ﬂying straight up, the wind whistling in my ears, the side of
the cliﬀ only inches from my face.
Scylla had somehow caught me by the knapsack, and was
lifting me up towards her lair. Without thinking, I swung my
sword behind me and managed to jab the thing in her beady
yellow eye. She grunted and dropped me.
The fall would’ve been bad enough, considering I was
thirty metres in the air. But, as I fell, the CSS Birmingham
exploded below me.
KAROOM!
The engine room blew, sending chunks of ironclad ﬂying in
either direction like a ﬁery set of wings.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
The lifeboats had managed to get away from the ship, but
not very far. Flaming wreckage was raining down. Clarisse
and Annabeth would either be smashed or burned or pulled
to the bottom by the force of the sinking hull, and that was
thinking optimistically, assuming they got away from Scylla.
Then I heard a diﬀerent kind of explosion – the sound of
Hermes’s magic Flask being opened a little too far. White
sheets of wind blasted in every direction, scattering the
lifeboats, lifting me out of my free fall and propelling me
across the ocean.
I couldn’t see anything. I spun in the air, got clonked on
the head by something hard, and hit the water with a crash
that would’ve broken every bone in my body if I hadn’t been
the son of the Sea God.
453
The last thing I remembered was sinking in a burning sea,
knowing that Tyson was gone forever, and wishing I were
able to drown.
454
12    We Check In to C.C.’s Spa & Resort
 
I woke up in a rowboat with a makeshift sail stitched of grey
uniform fabric. Annabeth sat next to me, tacking into the
wind.
I tried to sit up and immediately felt woozy.
‘Rest,’ she said. ‘You’re going to need it.’
‘Tyson …?’
She shook her head. ‘Percy, I’m really sorry.’
We were silent while the waves tossed us up and down.
‘He may have survived,’ she said half-heartedly. ‘I mean,
ﬁre can’t kill him.’
I nodded, but I had no reason to feel hopeful. I’d seen that
explosion rip through solid iron. If Tyson had been down in
the boiler room, there was no way he could’ve lived.
He’d given his life for us, and all I could think about were
the times I’d felt embarrassed by him and had denied that
the two of us were related.
Waves lapped at the boat. Annabeth showed me some
things she’d salvaged from the wreckage – Hermes’s Flask
(now empty), an airtight bag full of ambrosia, a couple of
sailors’ shirts and a bottle of Dr Pepper. She’d ﬁshed me out
of the water and found my knapsack, bitten in half by
Scylla’s teeth. Most of my stuﬀ had ﬂoated away, but I still
had Hermes’s bottle of multivitamins, and of course I had
Riptide. The ballpoint pen always appeared back in my
pocket no matter where I lost it.
We sailed for hours. Now that we were in the Sea of
Monsters, the water glittered a more brilliant green, like
Hydra acid. The wind smelled fresh and salty, but it carried
455
a strange metallic scent, too – as if a thunderstorm were
coming. Or something even more dangerous. I knew what
direction we needed to go. I knew we were exactly one
hundred and thirteen nautical miles west by northwest of
our destination. But that didn’t make me feel any less lost.
No matter which way we turned, the sun seemed to shine
straight into my eyes. We took turns sipping from the Dr
Pepper, shading ourselves with the sail as best we could.
And we talked about my latest dream of Grover.
By Annabeth’s estimate, we had less than twenty-four
hours to ﬁnd Grover, assuming my dream was accurate, and
assuming the Cyclops Polyphemus didn’t change his mind
and try to marry Grover earlier.
‘Yeah,’ I said bitterly. ‘You can never trust a Cyclops.’
Annabeth stared across the water. ‘I’m sorry, Percy. I was
wrong about Tyson, okay? I wish I could tell him that.’
I tried to stay mad at her, but it wasn’t easy. We’d been
through a lot together. She’d saved my life plenty of times.
It was stupid of me to resent her.
I looked down at our measly possessions – the empty wind
Flask, the bottle of multivitamins. I thought about Luke’s
look of rage when I’d tried to talk to him about his dad.
‘Annabeth, what’s Chiron’s prophecy?’
She pursed her lips. ‘Percy, I shouldn’t –’
‘I know Chiron promised the gods he wouldn’t tell me. But
you didn’t promise, did you?’
‘Knowledge isn’t always good for you.’
‘Your mom is the wisdom goddess!’
‘I know! But every time heroes learn the future, they try to
change it, and it never works.’
‘The gods are worried about something I’ll do when I get
older,’ I guessed. ‘Something when I turn sixteen.’
Annabeth twisted her Yankees cap in her hands. ‘Percy, I
don’t know the full prophecy, but it warns about a half-blood
child of the Big Three – the next one who lives to the age of
sixteen. That’s the real reason Zeus, Poseidon and Hades
456
swore a pact after World War II not to have any more kids.
The next child of the Big Three who reaches sixteen will be a
dangerous weapon.’
‘Why?’
‘Because that hero will decide the fate of Olympus. He or
she will make a decision that either saves the Age of the
Gods, or destroys it.’
I let that sink in. I don’t get seasick, but suddenly I felt ill.
‘That’s why Kronos didn’t kill me last summer.’
She nodded. ‘You could be very useful to him. If he can
get you on his side, the gods will be in serious trouble.’
‘But if it’s me in the prophecy –’
‘We’ll only know that if you survive three more years. That
can be a long time for a half-blood. When Chiron ﬁrst
learned about Thalia, he assumed she was the one in the
prophecy. That’s why he was so desperate to get her safely
to camp. Then she went down ﬁghting and got turned into a
pine tree and none of us knew what to think. Until you came
along.’
On our port side, a spiky green dorsal ﬁn about ﬁve
metres long curled out of the water and disappeared.
‘This kid in the prophecy … he or she couldn’t be like, a
Cyclops?’ I asked. ‘The Big Three have lots of monster
children.’
Annabeth shook her head. ‘The Oracle said “half-blood”.
That always means half human, half god. There’s really
nobody alive who it could be, except you.’
‘Then why do the gods even let me live? It would be safer
to kill me.’
‘You’re right.’
‘Thanks a lot.’
‘Percy, I don’t know. I guess some of the gods would like
to kill you, but they’re probably afraid of oﬀending Poseidon.
Other gods … maybe they’re still watching you, trying to
decide what kind of hero you’re going to be. You could be a
weapon for their survival, after all. The real question is …
457
what will you do in three years? What decision will you
make?’
‘Did the prophecy give any hints?’
Annabeth hesitated.
Maybe she would’ve told me more, but just then a seagull
swooped down out of nowhere and landed on our makeshift
mast. Annabeth looked startled as the bird dropped a small
cluster of leaves into her lap.
‘Land,’ she said. ‘There’s land nearby!’
I sat up. Sure enough, there was a line of blue and brown
in the distance. Another minute and I could make out an
island with a small mountain in the centre, a dazzling white
collection of buildings, a beach dotted with palm trees and a
harbour ﬁlled with a strange assortment of boats.
The current was pulling our rowboat towards what looked
like a tropical paradise.
‘Welcome!’ said the lady with the clipboard.
She looked like a ﬂight attendant – blue business suit,
perfect makeup, hair pulled back in a ponytail. She shook
our hands as we stepped onto the dock. With the dazzling
smile she gave us, you would’ve thought we’d just got oﬀ
the Princess Andromeda rather than a bashed-up rowboat.
Then again, our rowboat wasn’t the weirdest ship in port.
Along with a bunch of pleasure yachts, there was a U.S.
Navy submarine, several dugout canoes and an old-
fashioned three-masted sailing ship. There was a helipad
with a ‘Channel Five Fort Lauderdale’ helicopter on it, and a
short runway with a Learjet and a propeller plane that
looked like a World War II ﬁghter. Maybe they were replicas
for tourists to look at or something.
‘Is this your ﬁrst time with us?’ the clipboard lady
enquired.
Annabeth and I exchanged looks. Annabeth said, ‘Umm…’
‘First – time – at – spa,’ the lady said as she wrote on her
clipboard. ‘Let’s see…’
458
She looked us up and down critically. ‘Mmm. An herbal
wrap to start for the young lady. And of course, a complete
makeover for the young gentleman.’
‘A what?’ I asked.
She was too busy jotting down notes to answer.
‘Right!’ she said with a breezy smile. ‘Well, I’m sure C.C.
will want to speak with you personally before the luau.
Come, please.’
Now here’s the thing. Annabeth and I were used to traps,
and usually those traps looked good at ﬁrst. So I expected
the clipboard lady to turn into a snake or a demon, or
something, any minute. But, on the other hand, we’d been
ﬂoating in a rowboat for most of the day. I was hot, tired and
hungry, and when this lady mentioned a luau, my stomach
sat up on its hind legs and begged like a dog.
‘I guess it couldn’t hurt,’ Annabeth muttered.
Of course it could, but we followed the lady anyway. I kept
my hands in my pockets where I’d stashed my only magic
defences – Hermes’s multivitamins and Riptide – but the
further we wandered into the resort, the more I forgot about
them.
The place was amazing. There was white marble and blue
water everywhere I looked. Terraces climbed up the side of
the mountain, with swimming pools on every level,
connected by waterslides and waterfalls and underwater
tubes you could swim through. Fountains sprayed water into
the air, forming impossible shapes, like ﬂying eagles and
galloping horses.
Tyson loved horses, and I knew he’d love those fountains. I
almost turned around to see the expression on his face
before I remembered: Tyson was gone.
‘You okay?’ Annabeth asked me. ‘You look pale.’
‘I’m okay,’ I lied. ‘Just … let’s keep walking.’
We passed all kinds of tame animals. A sea turtle napped
in a stack of beach towels. A leopard stretched out asleep
on the diving board. The resort guests – only young women,
459
as far as I could see – lounged in deckchairs, drinking fruit
smoothies or reading magazines while herbal gunk dried on
their faces and manicurists in white uniforms did their nails.
As we headed up a staircase towards what looked like the
main building, I heard a woman singing. Her voice drifted
through the air like a lullaby. Her words were in some
language other than Ancient Greek, but just as old – Minoan,
maybe, or something like that. I could understand what she
sang about – moonlight in the olive groves, the colours of
the sunrise. And magic. Something about magic. Her voice
seemed to lift me oﬀ the steps and carry me towards her.
We came into a big room where the whole front wall was
windows. The back wall was covered in mirrors, so the room
seemed to go on forever. There was a bunch of expensive-
looking white furniture, and on a table in one corner was a
large wire pet cage. The cage seemed out of place, but I
didn’t think about it too much, because just then I saw the
lady who’d been singing … and whoa.
She sat at a loom the size of a big screen TV, her hands
weaving coloured thread back and forth with amazing skill.
The tapestry shimmered like it was three-dimensional – a
waterfall scene so real I could see the water moving and
clouds drifting across a fabric sky.
Annabeth caught her breath. ‘It’s beautiful.’
The woman turned. She was even prettier than her fabric.
Her long dark hair was braided with threads of gold. She had
piercing green eyes and she wore a silky black dress with
shapes that seemed to move in the fabric: animal shadows,
black upon black, like deer running through a forest at night.
‘You appreciate weaving, my dear?’ the woman asked.
‘Oh, yes, ma’am!’ Annabeth said. ‘My mother is –’
She stopped herself. You couldn’t just go around
announcing that your mom was Athena, the goddess who
invented the loom. Most people would lock you in a rubber
room.
460
Our hostess just smiled. ‘You have good taste, my dear.
I’m so glad you’ve come. My name is C.C.’
The animals in the corner cage started squealing. They
must’ve been guinea pigs, from the sound of them.
We introduced ourselves to C.C. She looked me over with
a twinge of disapproval, as if I’d failed some kind of test.
Immediately, I felt bad. For some reason, I really wanted to
please this lady.
‘Oh dear,’ she sighed. ‘You do need my help.’
‘Ma’am?’ I asked.
C.C. called to the lady in the business suit. ‘Hylla, take
Annabeth on a tour, will you? Show her what we have
available. The clothing will need to change. And the hair, my
goodness. We will do a full image consultation after I’ve
spoken with this young gentleman.’
‘But…’ Annabeth’s voice sounded hurt. ‘What’s wrong
with my hair?’
C.C. smiled benevolently. ‘My dear, you are lovely. Really!
But you’re not showing oﬀ yourself or your talents at all. So
much wasted potential!’
‘Wasted?’
‘Well, surely you’re not happy the way you are! My
goodness, there’s not a single person who is. But don’t
worry. We can improve anyone here at the spa. Hylla will
show you what I mean. You, my dear, need to unlock your
true self!’
Annabeth’s eyes glowed with longing. I’d never seen her
so much at a loss for words. ‘But … what about Percy?’
‘Oh, deﬁnitely,’ C.C. said, giving me a sad look. ‘Percy
requires my personal attention. He needs much more work
than you.’
Normally if somebody had told me that, I would’ve got
angry, but when C.C. said it, I felt sad. I’d disappointed her. I
had to ﬁgure out how to do better.
The guinea pigs squealed like they were hungry.
‘Well…’ Annabeth said. ‘I suppose…’
461
‘Right this way, dear,’ Hylla said. And Annabeth allowed
herself to be led away into the waterfall-laced gardens of
the spa.
C.C. took my arm and guided me towards the mirrored
wall. ‘You see, Percy … to unlock your potential, you’ll need
serious help. The ﬁrst step is admitting that you’re not
happy the way you are.’
I ﬁdgeted in front of the mirror. I hated thinking about my
appearance – like the ﬁrst zit that had cropped up on my
nose at the beginning of the school year, or the fact that my
two front teeth weren’t perfectly even, or that my hair never
stayed down straight.
C.C.’s voice brought all of these things to mind, as if she
were passing me under a microscope. And my clothes were
not cool. I knew that.
Who cares? part of me thought. But standing in front of
C.C.’s mirror, it was hard to see anything good in myself.
‘There, there,’ C.C. consoled. ‘How about we try … this.’
She snapped her ﬁngers and a sky-blue curtain rolled
down over the mirror. It shimmered like the fabric on her
loom.
‘What do you see?’ C.C. asked.
I looked at the blue cloth, not sure what she meant. ‘I
don’t –’
Then it changed colours. I saw myself – a reﬂection, but
not a reﬂection. Shimmering there on the cloth was a cooler
version of Percy Jackson – with just the right clothes, a
conﬁdent smile on my face. My teeth were straight. No zits.
A perfect tan. More athletic. Maybe a couple of centimetres
taller. It was me, without the faults.
‘Whoa,’ I managed.
‘Do you want that?’ C.C. asked. ‘Or shall I try a diﬀerent –’
‘No,’ I said. ‘That’s … that’s amazing. Can you really –’
‘I can give you a full makeover,’ C.C. promised.
‘What’s the catch?’ I said. ‘I have to like … eat a special
diet?’
462
‘Oh, it’s quite easy,’ C.C. said. ‘Plenty of fresh fruit, a mild
exercise programme, and of course … this.’
She stepped over to her wet bar and ﬁlled a glass with
water. Then she ripped open a drink-mix packet and poured
in some red powder. The mixture began to glow. When it
faded, the drink looked just like a strawberry milkshake.
‘One of these, substituted for a regular meal,’ C.C. said. ‘I
guarantee you’ll see results immediately.’
‘How is that possible?’
She laughed. ‘Why question it? I mean, don’t you want the
perfect you right away?’
Something nagged at the back of my mind. ‘Why are
there no guys at this spa?’
‘Oh, but there are,’ C.C. assured me. ‘You’ll meet them
quite soon. Just try the mixture. You’ll see.’
I looked at the blue tapestry, at the reﬂection of me, but
not me.
‘Now, Percy,’ C.C. chided. ‘The hardest part of the
makeover process is giving up control. You have to decide:
do you want to trust your judgement about what you should
be, or my judgement?’
My throat felt dry. I heard myself say, ‘Your judgement.’
C.C. smiled and handed me the glass. I lifted it to my lips.
It tasted just like it looked – like a strawberry milkshake.
Almost immediately a warm feeling spread through my gut:
pleasant at ﬁrst, then painfully hot, searing, as if the
mixture were coming to a boil inside me.
I doubled over and dropped the cup. ‘What have you …
what’s happening?’
‘Don’t worry, Percy,’ C.C. said. ‘The pain will pass. Look!
As I promised. Immediate results.’
Something was horribly wrong.
The curtain dropped away, and in the mirror I saw my
hands shrivelling, curling, growing long delicate claws. Fur
sprouted 
on 
my 
face, 
under 
my 
shirt, 
in 
every
uncomfortable place you can imagine. My teeth felt too
463
heavy in my mouth. My clothes were getting too big, or C.C.
was getting too tall – no, I was shrinking.
In one awful ﬂash, I sank into a cavern of dark cloth. I was
buried in my own shirt. I tried to run but hands grabbed me
– hands as big as I was. I tried to scream for help, but all
that came out of my mouth was, ‘Reeet, reeet, reeet!’
The giant hands squeezed me around the middle, lifting
me into the air. I struggled and kicked with legs and arms
that seemed much too stubby, and then I was staring,
horriﬁed, into the enormous face of C.C.
‘Perfect!’ her voice boomed. I squirmed in alarm, but she
only tightened her grip around my furry belly. ‘See, Percy?
You’ve unlocked your true self!’
She held me up to the mirror, and what I saw made me
scream in terror, ‘Reeet, reeet, reeet!’ There was C.C.,
beautiful and smiling, holding a ﬂuﬀy, bucktoothed creature
with tiny claws and white-and-orange fur. When I twisted, so
did the furry critter in the mirror. I was … I was…
‘A guinea pig,’ C.C. said. ‘Lovely, aren’t you? Men are pigs,
Percy Jackson. I used to turn them into real pigs, but they
were so smelly and large and diﬃcult to keep. Not much
diﬀerent than they were before, really. Guinea pigs are
much more convenient! Now come, and meet the other
men.’
‘Reeet!’ I protested, trying to scratch her, but C.C.
squeezed me so tight I almost blacked out.
‘None of that, little one,’ she scolded, ‘or I’ll feed you to
the owls. Go into the cage like a good little pet. Tomorrow, if
you behave, you’ll be on your way. There is always a
classroom in need of a new guinea pig.’
My mind was racing as fast as my tiny little heart. I
needed to get back to my clothes, which were lying in a
heap on the ﬂoor. If I could do that, I could get Riptide out of
my pocket and … And what? I couldn’t uncap the pen. Even
if I did, I couldn’t hold the sword.
464
I squirmed helplessly as C.C. brought me over to the
guinea pig cage and opened the wire door.
‘Meet my discipline problems, Percy,’ she warned. ‘They’ll
never make good classroom pets, but they might teach you
some manners. Most of them have been in this cage for
three hundred years. If you don’t want to stay with them
permanently, I’d suggest you –’
Annabeth’s voice called, ‘Miss C.C.?’
C.C. cursed in Ancient Greek. She plopped me into the
cage and closed the door. I squealed and clawed at the bars,
but it was no good. I watched as C.C. hurriedly kicked my
clothes under the loom just as Annabeth came in.
I almost didn’t recognize her. She was wearing a
sleeveless silk dress like C.C.’s, only white. Her blonde hair
was newly washed and combed and braided with gold.
Worst of all, she was wearing makeup, which I never
thought Annabeth would be caught dead in. I mean, she
looked good. Really good. I probably would’ve been tongue-
tied if I could’ve said anything except reet, reet, reet. But
there was also something totally wrong about it. It just
wasn’t Annabeth.
She looked around the room and frowned. ‘Where’s
Percy?’
I squealed up a storm, but she didn’t seem to hear me.
C.C. smiled. ‘He’s having one of our treatments, my dear.
Not to worry. You look wonderful! What did you think of your
tour?’
Annabeth’s eyes brightened. ‘Your library is amazing!’
‘Yes, indeed,’ C.C. said. ‘The best knowledge of the past
three millennia. Anything you want to study, anything you
want to be, my dear.’
‘An architect?’
‘Pah!’ C.C. said. ‘You, my dear, have the makings of a
sorceress. Like me.’
Annabeth took a step back. ‘A sorceress?’
465
‘Yes, my dear.’ C.C. held up her hand. A ﬂame appeared in
her palm and danced across her ﬁngertips. ‘My mother is
Hecate, the goddess of magic. I know a daughter of Athena
when I see one. We are not so diﬀerent, you and I. We both
seek knowledge. We both admire greatness. Neither of us
needs to stand in the shadow of men.’
‘I-I don’t understand.’
Again, I squealed my best, trying to get Annabeth’s
attention, but she either couldn’t hear me or didn’t think the
noises were important. Meanwhile, the other guinea pigs
were emerging from their hutch to check me out. I didn’t
think it was possible for guinea pigs to look mean, but these
did. There were half a dozen, with dirty fur and cracked
teeth and beady red eyes. They were covered with shavings
and smelled like they really had been in here for three
hundred years, without getting their cage cleaned.
‘Stay with me,’ C.C. was telling Annabeth. ‘Study with me.
You can join our staﬀ, become a sorceress, learn to bend
others to your will. You will become immortal!’
‘But –’
‘You are too intelligent, my dear,’ C.C. said. ‘You know
better than to trust that silly camp for heroes. How many
great female half-blood heroes can you name?’
‘Um, Atalanta, Amelia Earhart –’
‘Bah! Men get all the glory.’ C.C. closed her ﬁst and
extinguished the magic ﬂame. ‘The only way to power for
women is sorcery. Medea, Calypso, now there were powerful
women! And me, of course. The greatest of all.’
‘You … C.C. … Circe!’
‘Yes, my dear.’
Annabeth backed up, and Circe laughed. ‘You need not
worry. I mean you no harm.’
‘What have you done to Percy?’
‘Only helped him realize his true form.’
Annabeth scanned the room. Finally she saw the cage,
and me scratching at the bars, all the other guinea pigs
466
crowding around me. Her eyes went wide.
‘Forget him,’ Circe said. ‘Join me and learn the ways of
sorcery.’
‘But –’
‘Your friend will be well cared for. He’ll be shipped to a
wonderful new home on the mainland. The kindergartners
will adore him. Meanwhile, you will be wise and powerful.
You will have all you ever wanted.’
Annabeth was still staring at me, but she had a dreamy
expression on her face. She looked the same way I had
when Circe enchanted me into drinking the guinea pig
milkshake. I squealed and scratched, trying to warn her to
snap out of it, but I was absolutely powerless.
‘Let me think about it,’ Annabeth murmured. ‘Just … give
me a minute alone. To say goodbye.’
‘Of course, my dear,’ Circe cooed. ‘One minute. Oh … and
so you have absolute privacy…’ She waved her hand and
iron bars slammed down over the windows. She swept out
of the room and I heard the locks on the door click shut
behind her.
The dreamy look melted oﬀ Annabeth’s face.
She rushed over to my cage. ‘All right, which one is you?’
I squealed, but so did all the other guinea pigs. Annabeth
looked desperate. She scanned the room and spotted the
turn-up of my jeans sticking out from under the loom.
Yes!
She rushed over and rummaged through my pockets.
But instead of bringing out Riptide, she found the bottle of
Hermes’s multivitamins and started struggling with the cap.
I wanted to scream at her that this wasn’t the time for
taking supplements! She had to draw the sword!
She popped a lemon chewable in her mouth just as the
door ﬂew open and Circe came back in, ﬂanked by two of
her business-suited attendants.
‘Well,’ Circe sighed, ‘how fast a minute passes. What is
your answer, my dear?’
467
‘This,’ Annabeth said, and she drew her bronze knife.
The sorceress stepped back, but her surprise quickly
passed. She sneered. ‘Really, little girl, a knife against my
magic? Is that wise?’
Circe looked back at her attendants, who smiled. They
raised their hands as if preparing to cast a spell.
Run! I wanted to tell Annabeth, but all I could make were
rodent noises. The other guinea pigs squealed in terror and
scuttled around the cage. I had the urge to panic and hide,
too, but I had to think of something! I couldn’t stand to lose
Annabeth the way I’d lost Tyson.
‘What will Annabeth’s makeover be?’ Circe mused.
‘Something small and ill-tempered. I know … a shrew!’
Blue ﬁre coiled from her ﬁngers curling like serpents
around Annabeth.
I watched, horror-struck, but nothing happened. Annabeth
was still Annabeth, only angrier. She leaped forward and
stuck the point of her knife against Circe’s neck. ‘How about
turning me into a panther instead? One that has her claws
at your throat!’
‘How!’ Circe yelped.
Annabeth held up my bottle of vitamins for the sorceress
to see.
Circe howled in frustration. ‘Curse Hermes and his
multivitamins! Those are such a fad! They do nothing for
you.’
‘Turn Percy back to a human or else!’ Annabeth said.
‘I can’t!’
‘Then you asked for it.’
Circe’s attendants stepped forward, but their mistress
said, ‘Get back! She’s immune to magic until that cursed
vitamin wears oﬀ.’
Annabeth dragged Circe over to the guinea pig cage,
knocked the top oﬀ, and poured the rest of the vitamins
inside.
‘No!’ Circe screamed.
468
I was the ﬁrst to get a vitamin, but all the other guinea
pigs scuttled out, too, and checked out this new food.
The ﬁrst nibble, and I felt all ﬁery inside. I gnawed at the
vitamin until it stopped looking so huge, and the cage got
smaller, and then suddenly, bang! The cage exploded. I was
sitting on the ﬂoor, a human again – somehow back in my
regular clothes, thank the gods – with six other guys who all
looked disoriented, blinking and shaking wood shavings out
of their hair.
‘No!’ Circe screamed. ‘You don’t understand! Those are
the worst!’
One of the men stood up – a huge guy with a long tangled
pitch-black beard and teeth the same colour. He wore
mismatched clothes of wool and leather, knee-length boots,
and a ﬂoppy felt hat. The other men were dressed more
simply – in breeches and stained white shirts. All of them
were barefoot.
‘Argggh!’ bellowed the big man. ‘What’s the witch done
t’me!’
‘No!’ Circe moaned.
Annabeth gasped. ‘I recognize you! Edward Teach, son of
Ares?’
‘Aye, lass,’ the big man growled. ‘Though most call me
Blackbeard! And there’s the sorceress what captured us,
lads. Run her through, and then I mean to ﬁnd me a big
bowl of celery! Arggggh!’
Circe screamed. She and her attendants ran from the
room, chased by the pirates.
Annabeth sheathed her knife and glared at me.
‘Thanks…’ I faltered. ‘I’m really sorry –’
Before I could ﬁgure out how to apologize for being such
an idiot, she tackled me with a hug, then pulled away just as
quickly. ‘I’m glad you’re not a guinea pig.’
‘Me, too.’ I hoped my face wasn’t as red as it felt.
She undid the golden braids in her hair.
469
‘Come on, Seaweed Brain,’ she said. ‘We have to get away
while Circe’s distracted.’
We ran down the hillside through the terraces, past
screaming spa workers and pirates ransacking the resort.
Blackbeard’s men broke the tiki torches for the luau, threw
herbal wraps into the swimming pool and kicked over tables
of sauna towels.
I almost felt bad letting the unruly pirates out, but I
guessed they deserved something more entertaining than
the exercise wheel after being cooped up in a cage for three
centuries.
‘Which ship?’ Annabeth said as we reached the docks.
I looked around desperately. We couldn’t very well take
our rowboat. We had to get oﬀ the island fast, but what else
could we use? A sub? A ﬁghter jet? I couldn’t pilot any of
those things. And then I saw it.
‘There,’ I said.
Annabeth blinked. ‘But –’
‘I can make it work.’
‘How?’
I couldn’t explain. I just somehow knew an old sailing
vessel was the best bet for me. I grabbed Annabeth’s hand
and pulled her towards the three-mast ship. Painted on its
prow was the name that I would only decipher later: Queen
Anne’s Revenge.
Argggh!’ Blackbeard yelled somewhere behind us. ‘Those
scallywags are a-boarding me vessel! Get ‘em, lads!’
‘We’ll never get going in time!’ Annabeth yelled as we
climbed aboard.
I looked around at the hopeless maze of sail and ropes.
The ship was in great condition for a three-hundred-year-old
vessel, but it would still take a crew of ﬁfty several hours to
get underway. We didn’t have several hours. I could see the
pirates running down the stairs, waving tiki torches and
sticks of celery.
470
I closed my eyes and concentrated on the waves lapping
against the hull, the ocean currents, the winds all around
me. Suddenly, the right word appeared in my mind.
‘Mizzenmast!’ I yelled.
Annabeth looked at me like I was nuts, but in the next
second, the air was ﬁlled with whistling sounds of ropes
being snapped taut, canvases unfurling and wooden pulleys
creaking.
Annabeth ducked as a cable ﬂew over her head and
wrapped itself around the bowsprit. ‘Percy, how…’
I didn’t have an answer, but I could feel the ship
responding to me as if it were part of my body. I willed the
sails to rise as easily as if I were ﬂexing my arm. I willed the
rudder to turn.
The Queen Anne’s Revenge lurched away from the dock,
and by the time the pirates arrived at the water’s edge, we
were already underway, sailing into the Sea of Monsters.
471
13    Annabeth Tries to Swim Home
 
I’d ﬁnally found something I was really good at.
The Queen Anne’s Revenge responded to my every
command. I knew which ropes to hoist, which sails to raise,
which direction to steer. We ploughed through the waves at
what I ﬁgured was about ten knots. I even understood how
fast that was. For a sailing ship, pretty darn fast.
It all felt perfect – the wind in my face, the waves breaking
over the prow.
But now that we were out of danger, all I could think about
was how much I missed Tyson, and how worried I was about
Grover.
I couldn’t get over how badly I’d messed up on Circe’s
Island. If it hadn’t been for Annabeth, I’d still be a rodent,
hiding in a hutch with a bunch of cute furry pirates. I
thought about what Circe had said: See, Percy? You’ve
unlocked your true self!
I still felt changed. Not just because I had a sudden desire
to eat lettuce. I felt jumpy, like the instinct to be a scared
little animal was now a part of me. Or maybe it had always
been there. That’s what really worried me.
We sailed through the night.
Annabeth tried to help me keep lookout, but sailing didn’t
agree with her. After a few hours’ rocking back and forth,
her face turned the colour of guacamole and she went
below to lie in a hammock.
I watched the horizon. More than once I spotted monsters.
A plume of water as tall as a skyscraper spewed into the
moonlight. A row of green spines slithered across the waves
472
– something maybe thirty metres long, reptilian. I didn’t
really want to know.
Once I saw Nereids, the glowing lady spirits of the sea. I
tried to wave at them, but they disappeared into the depths,
leaving me unsure whether they’d seen me or not.
Sometime after midnight, Annabeth came up on deck. We
were just passing a smoking volcano island. The sea
bubbled and steamed around the shore.
‘One of the forges of Hephaestus,’ Annabeth said. ‘Where
he makes his metal monsters.’
‘Like the bronze bulls?’
She nodded. ‘Go around. Far around.’
I didn’t need to be told twice. We steered clear of the
island, and soon it was just a red patch of haze behind us.
I looked at Annabeth. ‘The reason you hate Cyclopes so
much … the story about how Thalia really died. What
happened?’
It was hard to see her expression in the dark.
‘I guess you deserve to know,’ she said ﬁnally. ‘The night
Grover was escorting us to camp, he got confused, took
some wrong turns. You remember he told you that once?’
I nodded.
‘Well, the worst wrong turn was into a Cyclops’s lair in
Brooklyn.’
‘They’ve got Cyclopes in Brooklyn?’ I asked.
‘You wouldn’t believe how many, but that’s not the point.
This Cyclops, he tricked us. He managed to split us up inside
this maze of corridors in an old house in Flatbush. And he
could sound like anyone, Percy. Just the way Tyson did
aboard the Princess Andromeda. He lured us, one at time.
Thalia thought she was running to save Luke. Luke thought
he heard me scream for help. And me … I was alone in the
dark. I was seven years old. I couldn’t even ﬁnd the exit.’
She brushed the hair out of her face. ‘I remember ﬁnding
the main room. There were bones all over the ﬂoor. And
there were Thalia and Luke and Grover, tied up and gagged,
473
hanging from the ceiling like smoked hams. The Cyclops was
starting a ﬁre in the middle of the ﬂoor. I drew my knife, but
he heard me. He turned and smiled. He spoke, and
somehow he knew my dad’s voice. I guess he just plucked it
out of my mind. He said, “Now, Annabeth, don’t you worry. I
love you. You can stay here with me. You can stay forever.’ ”
I shivered. The way she told it – even now, six years later
– freaked me out worse than any ghost story I’d ever heard.
‘What did you do?’
‘I stabbed him in the foot.’
I stared at her. ‘Are you kidding? You were seven years old
and you stabbed a grown Cyclops in the foot?’
‘Oh, he would’ve killed me. But I surprised him. It gave me
just enough time to run to Thalia and cut the ropes on her
hands. She took it from there.’
‘Yeah, but still … that was pretty brave, Annabeth.’
She shook her head. ‘We barely got out alive. I still have
nightmares, Percy. The way that Cyclops talked in my
father’s voice. It was his fault we took so long getting to
camp. All the monsters who’d been chasing us had time to
catch up. That’s really why Thalia died. If it hadn’t been for
that Cyclops, she’d still be alive today.’
We sat on the deck, watching the Heracles constellation
rise in the night sky.
‘Go below,’ Annabeth told me at last. ‘You need some
rest.’
I nodded. My eyes were heavy. But when I got below and
found a hammock, it took me a long time to fall asleep. I
kept thinking about Annabeth’s story. I wondered, if I were
her, would I have had enough courage to go on this quest,
to sail straight towards the lair of another Cyclops?
I didn’t dream about Grover.
Instead I found myself back in Luke’s stateroom aboard
the Princess Andromeda. The curtains were open. It was
474
nighttime outside. The air swirled with shadows. Voices
whispered all around me – spirits of the dead.
Beware, they whispered. Traps. Trickery.
Kronos’s golden sarcophagus glowed faintly – the only
source of light in the room.
A cold laugh startled me. It seemed to come from miles
below the ship. You don’t have the courage, young one. You
can’t stop me.
I knew what I had to do. I had to open that coﬃn.
I uncapped Riptide. Ghosts whirled around me like a
tornado. Beware!
My heart pounded. I couldn’t make my feet move, but I
had to stop Kronos. I had to destroy whatever was in that
box.
Then a girl spoke right next to me, ‘Well, Seaweed Brain?’
I looked over, expecting to see Annabeth, but the girl
wasn’t Annabeth. She wore punk-style clothes with silver
chains on her wrists. She had spiky black hair, dark eyeliner
around her stormy blue eyes and a spray of freckles across
her nose. She looked familiar, but I wasn’t sure why.
‘Well?’ she asked. ‘Are we going to stop him or not?’
I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t move.
The girl rolled her eyes. ‘Fine. Leave it to me and Aegis.’
She tapped her wrist and her silver chains transformed –
ﬂattening and expanding into a huge shield. It was silver
and bronze, with the monstrous face of Medusa protruding
from the centre. It looked like a death mask, as if the
gorgon’s real head had been pressed into the metal. I didn’t
know if that were true, or if the shield could really petrify
me, but I looked away. Just being near it made me cold with
fear. I got a feeling that in a real ﬁght, the bearer of that
shield would be almost impossible to beat. Any sane enemy
would turn and run.
The 
girl 
drew 
her 
sword 
and 
advanced 
on 
the
sarcophagus. The shadowy ghosts parted for her, scattering
before the terrible aura of her shield.
475
‘No,’ I tried to warn her.
But she didn’t listen. She marched straight up to the
sarcophagus and pushed aside the golden lid.
For a moment she stood there, gazing down at whatever
was in the box.
The coﬃn began to glow.
‘No.’ The girl’s voice trembled. ‘It can’t be.’
From the depths of the ocean, Kronos laughed so loudly
the whole ship trembled.
‘No!’ The girl screamed as the sarcophagus engulfed her
in a blast of golden light.
‘Ah!’ I sat bolt upright in my hammock.
Annabeth was shaking me. ‘Percy, you were having a
nightmare. You need to get up.’
‘Wh-what is it?’ I rubbed my eyes. ‘What’s wrong?’
‘Land,’ she said grimly. ‘We’re approaching the island of
the Sirens.’
I could barely make out the island ahead of us – just a dark
spot in the mist.
‘I want you to do me a favour,’ Annabeth said. ‘The Sirens
… we’ll be in range of their singing soon.’
I remembered stories about the Sirens. They sang so
sweetly their voices enchanted sailors and lured them to
their death.
‘No problem,’ I assured her. ‘We can just stop up our ears.
There’s a big tub of candle wax below deck –’
‘I want to hear them.’
I blinked. ‘Why?’
‘They say the Sirens sing the truth about what you desire.
They tell you things about yourself you didn’t even realize.
That’s what’s so enchanting. If you survive … you become
wiser. I want to hear them. How often will I get that chance?’
Coming from most people, this would’ve made no sense.
But Annabeth being who she was – well, if she could
struggle through Ancient Greek architecture books and
476
enjoy documentaries on the History Channel, I guessed the
Sirens would appeal to her, too.
She told me her plan. Reluctantly, I helped her get ready.
As soon as the rocky coastline of the island came into
view, I ordered one of the ropes to wrap around Annabeth’s
waist, tying her to the foremast.
‘Don’t untie me,’ she said, ‘no matter what happens or
how much I plead. I’ll want to go straight over the edge and
drown myself.’
‘Are you trying to tempt me?’
‘Ha-ha.’
I promised I’d keep her secure. Then I took two large wads
of candle wax, kneaded them into earplugs, and stuﬀed my
ears.
Annabeth nodded sarcastically, letting me know the
earplugs were a real fashion statement. I made a face at her
and turned to the pilot’s wheel.
The silence was eerie. I couldn’t hear anything but the
rush of blood in my head. As we approached the island,
jagged rocks loomed out of the fog. I willed the Queen
Anne’s Revenge to skirt around them. If we sailed any
closer, those rocks would shred our hull like blender blades.
I glanced back. At ﬁrst, Annabeth seemed totally normal.
Then she got a puzzled look on her face. Her eyes widened.
She strained against the ropes. She called my name – I
could tell just from reading her lips. Her expression was
clear: she had to get out. This was life or death. I had to let
her out of the ropes right now.
She seemed so miserable it was hard not to cut her free.
I forced myself to look away. I urged the Queen Anne’s
Revenge to go faster.
I still couldn’t see much of the island – just mist and rocks
– but ﬂoating in the water were pieces of wood and
ﬁbreglass, the wreckage of old ships, even some ﬂotation
cushions from aeroplanes.
477
How could music cause so many lives to veer oﬀ course? I
mean, sure, there were some Top Forty songs that made me
want to take a ﬁery nosedive, but still … What could the
Sirens possibly sing about?
For one dangerous moment, I understood Annabeth’s
curiosity. I was tempted to take out the earplugs, just to get
a taste of the song. I could feel the Sirens’ voices vibrating
in the timbers of the ship, pulsing along with the roar of
blood in my ears.
Annabeth was pleading with me. Tears streamed down her
cheeks. She strained against the ropes, as if they were
holding her back from everything she cared about.
How could you be so cruel? she seemed to be asking me. I
thought you were my friend.
I glared at the misty island. I wanted to uncap my sword,
but there was nothing to ﬁght. How do you ﬁght a song?
I tried hard not to look at Annabeth. I managed it for
about ﬁve minutes.
That was my big mistake.
When I couldn’t stand it any longer, I looked back and
found … a heap of cut ropes. An empty mast. Annabeth’s
bronze knife lay on the deck. Somehow, she’d managed to
wriggle it into her hand. I’d totally forgotten to disarm her.
I rushed to the side of the boat and saw her paddling
madly for the island, the waves carrying her straight
towards the jagged rocks.
I screamed her name, but if she heard me, it didn’t do any
good. She was entranced, swimming towards her death.
I looked back at the pilot’s wheel and yelled, ‘Stay!’
Then I jumped over the side.
I sliced into the water and willed the currents to bend
around me, making a jet stream that shot me forward.
I came to the surface and spotted Annabeth, but a wave
caught her, sweeping her between two razor-sharp fangs of
rock.
I had no choice. I plunged after her.
478
I dived under the wrecked hull of a yacht, wove through a
collection of ﬂoating metal balls on chains that I realized
afterwards were mines. I had to use all my power over water
to avoid getting smashed against the rocks or tangled in the
nets of barbed wire strung just below the surface.
I jetted between the two rock fangs and found myself in a
half-moon-shaped bay. The water was choked with more
rocks and ship wreckage and ﬂoating mines. The beach was
black volcanic sand.
I looked around desperately for Annabeth.
There she was.
Luckily or unluckily, she was a strong swimmer. She’d
made it past the mines and the rocks. She was almost to the
black beach.
Then the mist cleared and I saw them – the Sirens.
Imagine a ﬂock of vultures the size of people – with dirty
black plumage, grey talons and wrinkled pink necks. Now
imagine human heads on top of those necks, but the human
heads keep changing.
I couldn’t hear them, but I could see they were singing. As
their mouths moved, their faces morphed into people I knew
– my mom, Poseidon, Grover, Tyson, Chiron. All the people I
most wanted to see. They smiled reassuringly, inviting me
forward. But no matter what shape they took, their mouths
were greasy and caked with the remnants of old meals. Like
vultures, they’d been eating with their faces, and it didn’t
look like they’d been feasting on Monster Doughnuts.
Annabeth swam towards them.
I knew I couldn’t let her get out of the water. The sea was
my only advantage. It had always protected me one way or
another. I propelled myself forward and grabbed her ankle.
The moment I touched her, a shock went through my
body, and I saw the Sirens the way Annabeth must’ve been
seeing them.
Three people sat on a picnic blanket in Central Park. A
feast was spread out before them. I recognized Annabeth’s
479
dad from photos she’d shown me – an athletic-looking,
sandy-haired guy in his forties. He was holding hands with a
beautiful woman who looked a lot like Annabeth. She was
dressed casually – in blue jeans and a denim shirt and hiking
boots – but something about the woman radiated power. I
knew that I was looking at the goddess Athena. Next to
them sat a young man … Luke.
The whole scene glowed in a warm, buttery light. The
three of them were talking and laughing, and when they
saw Annabeth, their faces lit up with delight. Annabeth’s
mom and dad held out their arms invitingly. Luke grinned
and gestured for Annabeth to sit next to him – as if he’d
never betrayed her, as if he were still her friend.
Behind the trees of Central Park, a city skyline rose. I
caught my breath, because it was Manhattan, but not
Manhattan. It had been totally rebuilt from dazzling white
marble, bigger and grander than ever – with golden
windows and rooftop gardens. It was better than New York.
Better than Mount Olympus.
I knew immediately that Annabeth had designed it all. She
was the architect for a whole new world. She had reunited
her parents. She had saved Luke. She had done everything
she’d ever wanted.
I blinked hard. When I opened my eyes, all I saw were the
Sirens – ragged vultures with human faces, ready to feed on
another victim.
I pulled Annabeth back into the surf. I couldn’t hear her,
but I could tell she was screaming. She kicked me in the
face, but I held on.
I willed the currents to carry us out into the bay. Annabeth
pummelled and kicked me, making it hard to concentrate.
She thrashed so much we almost collided with a ﬂoating
mine. I didn’t know what to do. I’d never get back to the
ship alive if she kept ﬁghting.
We went under and Annabeth stopped struggling. Her
expression became confused. Then our heads broke the
480
surface and she started to ﬁght again.
The water! Sound didn’t travel well underwater. If I could
submerge her long enough, I could break the spell of the
music. Of course, Annabeth wouldn’t be able to breathe, but
at the moment, that seemed like a minor problem.
I grabbed her around the waist and ordered the waves to
push us down.
We shot into the depths – three metres, six metres. I knew
I had to be careful because I could withstand a lot more
pressure than Annabeth. She fought and struggled for
breath as bubbles rose around us.
Bubbles.
I was desperate. I had to keep Annabeth alive. I imagined
all the bubbles in the sea – always churning, rising. I
imagined them coming together, being pulled towards me.
The sea obeyed. There was a ﬂurry of white, a tickling
sensation all around me, and when my vision cleared,
Annabeth and I had a huge bubble of air around us. Only our
legs stuck into the water.
She gasped and coughed. Her whole body shuddered, but
when she looked at me, I knew the spell had been broken.
She started to sob – I mean horrible, heartbroken sobbing.
She put her head on my shoulder and I held her.
Fish gathered to look at us – a school of barracudas, some
curious marlins.
Scram! I told them.
They swam oﬀ, but I could tell they went reluctantly. I
swear I understood their intentions. They were about to
start rumours ﬂying around the sea about the son of
Poseidon and some girl at the bottom of Siren Bay.
‘I’ll get us back to the ship,’ I told her. ‘It’s okay. Just hang
on.’
Annabeth nodded to let me know she was better now,
then she murmured something I couldn’t hear because of
the wax in my ears.
481
I made the current steer our weird little air submarine
through the rocks and barbed wire and back towards the
hull of the Queen Anne’s Revenge, which was maintaining a
slow and steady course away from the island.
We stayed underwater, following the ship, until I judged
we had moved out of earshot of the Sirens. Then I surfaced
and our air bubble popped.
I ordered a rope ladder to drop over the side of the ship,
and we climbed aboard.
I kept my earplugs in, just to be sure. We sailed until the
island was completely out of sight. Annabeth sat huddled in
a blanket on the forward deck. Finally she looked up, dazed
and sad, and mouthed, Safe.
I took out the earplugs. No singing. The afternoon was
quiet except for the sound of the waves against the hull.
The fog had burned away to a blue sky, as if the island of
the Sirens had never existed.
‘You okay?’ I asked. The moment I said it, I realized how
lame that sounded. Of course she wasn’t okay.
‘I didn’t realize,’ she murmured.
‘What?’
Her eyes were the same colour as the mist over the
Sirens’ island. ‘How powerful the temptation would be.’
I didn’t want to admit that I’d seen what the Sirens had
promised her. I felt like a trespasser. But I ﬁgured I owed it
to Annabeth.
‘I saw the way you rebuilt Manhattan,’ I told her. ‘And Luke
and your parents.’
She blushed. ‘You saw that?’
‘What Luke told you back on the Princess Andromeda,
about starting the world from scratch … that really got to
you, huh?’
She pulled her blanket around her. ‘My fatal ﬂaw. That’s
what the Sirens showed me. My fatal ﬂaw is hubris.’
I blinked. ‘That brown stuﬀ they spread on veggie
sandwiches?’
482
She rolled her eyes. ‘No, Seaweed Brain. That’s hummus.
Hubris is worse.’
‘What could be worse than hummus?’
‘Hubris means deadly pride, Percy. Thinking you can do
things better than anyone else … even the gods.’
‘You feel that way?’
She looked down. ‘Don’t you ever feel like, what if the
world really is messed up? What if we could do it all over
again from scratch? No more war. Nobody homeless. No
more summer reading homework.’
‘I’m listening.’
‘I mean, the West represents a lot of the best things
mankind ever did – that’s why the ﬁre is still burning. That’s
why Olympus is still around. But sometimes you just see the
bad stuﬀ, you know? And you start thinking the way Luke
does: “If I could tear this all down, I would do it better.”
Don’t you ever feel that way? Like you could do a better job
if you ran the world?’
‘Um … no. Me running the world would kind of be a
nightmare.’
‘Then you’re lucky. Hubris isn’t your fatal ﬂaw.’
‘What is?’
‘I don’t know, Percy, but every hero has one. If you don’t
ﬁnd it and learn to control it … well, they don’t call it “fatal”
for nothing.’
I thought about that. It didn’t exactly cheer me up.
I also noticed Annabeth hadn’t said much about the
personal things she would change – like getting her parents
back together, or saving Luke. I understood. I didn’t want to
admit how many times I’d dreamed of getting my own
parents back together.
I pictured my mom, alone in our little apartment on the
Upper East Side. I tried to remember the smell of her blue
waﬄes in the kitchen. It seemed so far away.
‘So was it worth it?’ I asked Annabeth. ‘Do you feel …
wiser?’
483
She gazed into the distance. ‘I’m not sure. But we have to
save the camp. If we don’t stop Luke…’
She didn’t need to ﬁnish. If Luke’s way of thinking could
even tempt Annabeth, there was no telling how many other
half-bloods might join him.
I thought about my dream of the girl and the golden
sarcophagus. I wasn’t sure what it meant, but I got the
feeling I was missing something. Something terrible that
Kronos was planning. What had the girl seen when she
opened that coﬃn lid?
Suddenly Annabeth’s eyes widened. ‘Percy.’
I turned.
Up ahead was another blotch of land – a saddle-shaped
island with forested hills and white beaches and green
meadows – just like I’d seen in my dreams.
My nautical senses conﬁrmed it. Thirty degrees, thirty-one
minutes north, seventy-ﬁve degrees, twelve minutes west.
We had reached the home of the Cyclops.
484
14    We Meet the Sheep of Doom
 
When you think ‘monster island’, you think craggy rocks and
bones scattered on the beach like the island of the Sirens.
The Cyclops’s island was nothing like that. I mean, okay, it
had a rope bridge across a chasm, which was not a good
sign. You might as well put up a billboard that said,
SOMETHING EVIL LIVES HERE. But, except for that, the place
looked like a Caribbean postcard. It had green ﬁelds and
tropical fruit trees and white beaches. As we sailed towards
the shore, Annabeth breathed in the sweet air. ‘The Fleece,’
she said.
I nodded. I couldn’t see the Fleece yet, but I could feel its
power. I could believe it would heal anything, even Thalia’s
poisoned tree. ‘If we take it away, will the island die?’
Annabeth shook her head. ‘It’ll fade. Go back to what it
would be normally, whatever that is.’
I felt a little guilty about ruining this paradise, but I
reminded myself we had no choice. Camp Half-Blood was in
trouble. And Tyson … Tyson would still be with us if it wasn’t
for this quest.
In the meadow at the base of the ravine, several dozen
sheep were milling around. They looked peaceful enough,
but they were huge – the size of hippos. Just past them was
a path that led up into the hills. At the top of the path, near
the edge of the canyon, was the massive oak tree I’d seen
in my dreams. Something gold glittered in its branches.
‘This is too easy,’ I said. ‘We could just hike up there and
take it.’
485
Annabeth’s eyes narrowed. ‘There’s supposed to be a
guardian. A dragon or…’
That’s when a deer emerged from the bushes. It trotted
into the meadow, probably looking for grass to eat, when
the sheep all bleated at once and rushed the animal. It
happened so fast that the deer stumbled and was lost in a
sea of wool and trampling hooves.
Grass and tufts of fur ﬂew into the air.
A second later the sheep all moved away, back to their
regular peaceful wanderings. Where the deer had been was
a pile of clean white bones.
Annabeth and I exchanged looks.
‘They’re like piranhas,’ she said.
‘Piranhas with wool. How will we –’
‘Percy!’ Annabeth gasped, grabbing my arm. ‘Look.’
She pointed down the beach, to just below the sheep
meadow, where a small boat had been run aground … the
other lifeboat from the CSS Birmingham.
We decided there was no way we could get past the man-
eating sheep. Annabeth wanted to sneak up the path
invisibly and grab the Fleece, but in the end I convinced her
that something would go wrong. The sheep would smell her.
Another guardian would appear. Something. And if that
happened, I’d be too far away to help.
Besides, our ﬁrst job was to ﬁnd Grover and whoever had
come ashore in that lifeboat – assuming they’d got past the
sheep. I was too nervous to say what I was secretly hoping
… that Tyson might still be alive.
We moored the Queen Anne’s Revenge on the back side
of the island where the cliﬀs rose straight up a good sixty
metres feet. I ﬁgured the ship was less likely to be seen
there.
The cliﬀs looked climbable, barely – about as diﬃcult as
the lava wall back at camp. At least it was free of sheep. I
486
hoped that Polyphemus did not also keep carnivorous
mountain goats.
We rowed a lifeboat to the edge of the rocks and made
our way up, very slowly. Annabeth went ﬁrst because she
was the better climber.
We only came close to dying six or seven times, which I
thought was pretty good. Once, I lost my grip and I found
myself dangling by one hand from a ledge ﬁfteen metres
above the rocky surf. But I found another handhold and kept
climbing. A minute later Annabeth hit a slippery patch of
moss and her foot slipped. Fortunately, she found
something else to put it against. Unfortunately, that
something was my face.
‘Sorry,’ she murmured.
‘S’okay,’ I grunted, though I’d never really wanted to know
what Annabeth’s sneaker tasted like.
Finally, when my ﬁngers felt like molten lead and my arm
muscles were shaking from exhaustion, we hauled ourselves
over the top of the cliﬀ and collapsed.
‘Ugh,’ I said.
‘Ouch,’ moaned Annabeth.
‘Garrr!’ bellowed another voice.
If I hadn’t been so tired, I would’ve leaped another sixty
metres. I whirled around, but I couldn’t see who’d spoken.
Annabeth clamped her hand over my mouth. She pointed.
The ledge we were sitting on was narrower than I’d
realized. It dropped oﬀ on the opposite side, and that’s
where the voice was coming from – right below us.
‘You’re a feisty one!’ the deep voice bellowed.
‘Challenge me!’ Clarisse’s voice, no doubt about it. ‘Give
me back my sword and I’ll ﬁght you!’
The monster roared with laughter.
Annabeth and I crept to the edge. We were right above
the entrance of the Cyclops’s cave. Below us stood
Polyphemus and Grover, still in his wedding dress. Clarisse
was tied up, hanging upside down over a pot of boiling
487
water. I was half hoping to see Tyson down there, too. Even
if he’d been in danger, at least I would’ve known he was
alive. But there was no sign of him.
‘Hmm,’ Polyphemus pondered. ‘Eat loudmouth girl now or
wait for wedding feast? What does my bride think?’
He turned to Grover, who backed up and almost tripped
over his completed bridal train. ‘Oh, um, I’m not hungry
right now, dear. Perhaps –’
‘Did you say bride?’ Clarisse demanded. ‘Who – Grover?’
Next to me, Annabeth muttered, ‘Shut up. She has to shut
up.’
Polyphemus glowered. ‘What “Grover”?’
‘The satyr!’ Clarisse yelled.
‘Oh.!’ Grover yelped. ‘The poor thing’s brain is boiling
from that hot water. Pull her down, dear!’
Polyphemus’s eyelid narrowed over his baleful milky eye,
as if he were trying to see Clarisse more clearly.
The Cyclops was an even more horrible sight than he had
been in my dreams. Partly because his rancid smell was now
up close and personal. Partly because he was dressed in his
wedding outﬁt – a crude kilt and shoulder-wrap, stitched
together from baby-blue tuxedoes, as if he’d skinned an
entire wedding party.
‘What satyr?’ asked Polyphemus. ‘Satyrs are good eating.
You bring me a satyr?’
‘No, you big idiot!’ bellowed Clarisse. ‘That satyr! Grover!
The one in the wedding dress!’
I wanted to wring Clarisse’s neck, but it was too late. All I
could do was watch as Polyphemus turned and ripped oﬀ
Grover’s wedding veil – revealing his curly hair, his scruﬀy
adolescent beard, his tiny horns.
Polyphemus breathed heavily, trying to contain his anger.
‘I don’t see very well,’ he growled. ‘Not since many years
ago when the other hero stabbed me in eye. But YOU’RE –
NO – LADY – CYCLOPS!’
488
The Cyclops grabbed Grover’s dress and tore it away.
Underneath, the old Grover reappeared in his jeans and T-
shirt. He yelped and ducked as the monster swiped over his
head.
‘Stop!’ Grover pleaded. ‘Don’t eat me raw! I – I have a
good recipe!’
I reached for my sword, but Annabeth hissed, ‘Wait!’
Polyphemus was hesitating, a boulder in his hand, ready
to smash his would-be bride.
‘Recipe?’ he asked Grover.
‘Oh y-yes! You don’t want to eat me raw. You’ll get E. coli
and botulism and all sorts of horrible things. I’ll taste much
better roasted over a slow ﬁre. With mango chutney! You
could go get some mangoes right now, down there in the
woods. I’ll just wait here.’
The monster pondered this. My heart hammered against
my ribs. I ﬁgured I’d die if I charged. But I couldn’t let the
monster kill Grover.
‘Roasted satyr with mango chutney,’ Polyphemus mused.
He looked back at Clarisse, still hanging over the pot of
boiling water. ‘You a satyr, too?’
‘No, you overgrown pile of dung!’ she yelled. ‘I’m a girl!
The daughter of Ares! Now untie me so I can rip your arms
oﬀ!’
‘Rip my arms oﬀ,’ Polyphemus repeated.
‘And stuﬀ them down your throat!’
‘You got spunk.’
‘Let me down!’
Polyphemus snatched up Grover as if he were a wayward
puppy. ‘Have to graze sheep now. Wedding postponed until
tonight. Then we’ll eat satyr for the main course!’
‘But … you’re still getting married?’ Grover sounded hurt.
‘Who’s the bride?’
Polyphemus looked towards the boiling pot.
Clarisse made a strangled sound. ‘Oh, no! You can’t be
serious. I’m not –’
489
Before Annabeth or I could do anything, Polyphemus
plucked her oﬀ the rope like she was a ripe apple, and
tossed her and Grover deep into the cave. ‘Make yourself
comfortable! I come back at sundown for big event!’
Then the Cyclops whistled, and a mixed ﬂock of goats and
sheep – smaller than the man-eaters – ﬂooded out of the
cave and past their master. As they went to pasture,
Polyphemus patted some on the back and called them by
name – Beltbuster, Tammany, Lockhart and so on.
When the last sheep had waddled out, Polyphemus rolled
a boulder in front of the doorway as easily as I would close a
refrigerator door, shutting oﬀ the sound of Clarisse and
Grover screaming inside.
‘Mangoes,’ Polyphemus grumbled to himself. ‘What are
mangoes?’
He strolled oﬀ down the mountain in his baby-blue
groom’s outﬁt, leaving us alone with a pot of boiling water
and a six-ton boulder.
We tried for what seemed like hours, but it was no good.
The boulder wouldn’t move. We yelled into the cracks,
tapped on the rock, did everything we could think of to get a
signal to Grover, but if he heard us, we couldn’t tell.
Even if by some miracle we managed to kill Polyphemus,
it wouldn’t do us any good. Grover and Clarisse would die
inside that sealed cave. The only way to move the rock was
to have the Cyclops do it.
In total frustration, I stabbed Riptide against the boulder.
Sparks ﬂew, but nothing else happened. A large rock is not
the kind of enemy you can ﬁght with a magic sword.
Annabeth and I sat on the ridge in despair and watched
the distant baby-blue shape of the Cyclops as he moved
among his ﬂocks. He had wisely divided his regular animals
from his man-eating sheep, putting each group on either
side of the huge crevice that divided the island. The only
490
way across was the rope bridge, and the planks were much
too far apart for sheep hooves.
We watched as Polyphemus visited his carnivorous ﬂock
on the far side. Unfortunately, they didn’t eat him. In fact,
they didn’t seem to bother him at all. He fed them chunks of
mystery meat from a great wicker basket, which only
reinforced the feelings I’d been having since Circe turned
me into a guinea pig – that maybe it was time I joined
Grover and became a vegetarian.
‘Trickery,’ Annabeth decided. ‘We can’t beat him by force,
so we’ll have to use trickery.’
‘Okay,’ I said. ‘What trick?’
‘I haven’t ﬁgured that part out yet.’
‘Great.’
‘Polyphemus will have to move the rock to let the sheep
inside.’
‘At sunset,’ I said. ‘Which is when he’ll marry Clarisse and
have Grover for dinner. I’m not sure which is grosser.’
‘I could get inside,’ she said, ‘invisibly.’
‘What about me?’
‘The sheep,’ Annabeth mused. She gave me one of those
sly looks that always made me wary. ‘How much do you like
sheep?’
‘Just don’t let go!’ Annabeth said, standing invisibly
somewhere oﬀ to my right. That was easy for her to say. She
wasn’t hanging upside down from the belly of a sheep.
Now, I’ll admit it wasn’t as hard as I’d thought. I’d crawled
under a car before to change my mom’s oil, and this wasn’t
too diﬀerent. The sheep didn’t care. Even the Cyclops’s
smallest sheep were big enough to support my weight, and
they had thick wool. I just twirled the stuﬀ into handles for
my hands, hooked my feet against the sheep’s thigh bones,
and presto – I felt like a baby wallaby, riding around against
the sheep’s chest, trying to keep the wool out of my mouth
and my nose.
491
In case you’re wondering, the underside of a sheep
doesn’t smell that great. Imagine a winter sweater that’s
been dragged through the mud and left in the laundry
hamper for a week. Something like that.
The sun was going down.
No sooner was I in position than the Cyclops roared, ‘Oy!
Goaties! Sheepies!’
The ﬂock dutifully began trudging back up the slopes
towards the cave.
‘This is it!’ Annabeth whispered. ‘I’ll be close by. Don’t
worry.’
I made a silent promise to the gods that if we survived
this, I’d tell Annabeth she was a genius. The frightening
thing was, I knew the gods would hold me to it.
My sheep taxi started plodding up the hill. After a hundred
metres, my hands and feet started to hurt from holding on. I
gripped the sheep’s wool more tightly, and the animal made
a grumbling sound. I didn’t blame it. I wouldn’t want
anybody rock climbing in my hair either. But if I didn’t hold
on, I was sure I’d fall oﬀ right there in front of the monster.
‘Hasenpfeﬀer!’ the Cyclops said, patting one of the sheep
in front of me. ‘Einstein! Widget – eh there, Widget!’
Polyphemus patted my sheep and nearly knocked me to
the ground. ‘Putting on some extra mutton there?’
Uh-oh, I thought. Here it comes.
But Polyphemus just laughed and swatted the sheep’s
rear end, propelling us forward. ‘Go on, fatty! Soon
Polyphemus will eat you for breakfast!’
And just like that, I was in the cave.
I could see the last of the sheep coming inside. If
Annabeth didn’t pull oﬀ her distraction soon…
The Cyclops was about to roll the stone back into place,
when from somewhere outside Annabeth shouted, ‘Hello,
ugly!’
Polyphemus stiﬀened. ‘Who said that?’
‘Nobody!’ Annabeth yelled.
492
That got exactly the reaction she’d been hoping for. The
monster’s face turned red with rage.
‘Nobody!’ Polyphemus yelled back. ‘I remember you!’
‘You’re too stupid to remember anybody,’ Annabeth
taunted. ‘Much less Nobody.’
I hoped to the gods she was already moving when she
said that, because Polyphemus bellowed furiously, grabbed
the nearest boulder (which happened to be his front door)
and threw it towards the sound of Annabeth’s voice. I heard
the rock smash into a thousand fragments.
For a terrible moment, there was silence. Then Annabeth
shouted, ‘You haven’t learned to throw any better, either!’
Polyphemus howled. ‘Come here! Let me kill you,
Nobody!’
‘You can’t kill Nobody, you stupid oaf,’ she taunted. ‘Come
ﬁnd me!’
Polyphemus barrelled down the hill towards her voice.
Now, the ‘Nobody’ thing wouldn’t have made sense to
anybody, but Annabeth had explained to me that it was the
name Odysseus had used to trick Polyphemus centuries
ago, right before he poked the Cyclops’s eye out with a
large hot stick. Annabeth had ﬁgured Polyphemus would still
have a grudge about that name, and she was right. In his
frenzy to ﬁnd his old enemy, he forgot about resealing the
cave entrance. Apparently, he didn’t even stop to consider
that Annabeth’s voice was female, whereas the ﬁrst Nobody
had been male. On the other hand, he’d wanted to marry
Grover, so he couldn’t have been all that bright about the
whole male/female thing.
I just hoped Annabeth could stay alive and keep
distracting him long enough for me to ﬁnd Grover and
Clarisse.
I dropped oﬀ my ride, patted Widget on the head, and
apologized. I searched the main room, but there was no sign
of Grover or Clarisse. I pushed through the crowd of sheep
and goats towards the back of the cave.
493
Even though I’d dreamed about this place, I had a hard
time ﬁnding my way through the maze. I ran down corridors
littered with bones, past rooms full of sheepskin rugs and
life-size cement sheep that I recognized as the work of
Medusa. There were collections of sheep T-shirts; large tubs
of lanolin cream; and woolly coats, socks and hats with
rams’ horns. Finally, I found the spinning room, where
Grover was huddled in the corner, trying to cut Clarisse’s
bonds with a pair of safety scissors.
‘It’s no good,’ Clarisse said. ‘This rope is like iron!’
‘Just a few more minutes!’
‘Grover,’ she cried, exasperated. ‘You’ve been working at
it for hours!’
And then they saw me.
‘Percy?’ Clarisse said. ‘You’re supposed to be blown up!’
‘Good to see you, too. Now hold still while I –’
‘Perrrrrcy!’ Grover bleated and tackled me with a goat-
hug. ‘You heard me! You came!’
‘Yeah, buddy,’ I said. ‘Of course I came.’
‘Where’s Annabeth?’
‘Outside,’ I said. ‘But there’s no time to talk. Clarisse, hold
still.’
I uncapped Riptide and sliced oﬀ her ropes. She stood
stiﬄy, rubbing her wrists. She glared at me for a moment,
then looked at the ground and mumbled, ‘Thanks.’
‘You’re welcome,’ I said. ‘Now, was anyone else on board
your lifeboat?’
Clarisse looked surprised. ‘No. Just me. Everybody else
aboard the Birmingham … well, I didn’t even know you guys
made it out.’
I looked down, trying not to believe that my last hope of
seeing Tyson alive had just been crushed. ‘Okay. Come on,
then. We have to help –’
An explosion echoed through the cave, followed by a
scream that told me we might be too late. It was Annabeth
crying out in fear.
494
15    Nobody Gets the Fleece
 
‘I got Nobody!’ Polyphemus gloated.
We crept to the cave entrance and saw the Cyclops,
grinning wickedly, holding up empty air. The monster shook
his ﬁst, and a baseball cap ﬂuttered to the ground. There
was Annabeth, hanging upside down by her legs.
‘Hah!’ the Cyclops said. ‘Nasty invisible girl! Already got
feisty one for wife. Means you gotta be roasted with mango
chutney!’
Annabeth struggled, but she looked dazed. She had a
nasty cut on her forehead. Her eyes were glassy.
‘I’ll rush him,’ I whispered to Clarisse. ‘Our ship is around
the back of the island. You and Grover –’
‘No way,’ they said at the same time. Clarisse had armed
herself with a highly collectible rams-horn spear from the
Cyclops’s cave. Grover had found a sheep’s thigh bone,
which he didn’t look too happy about, but he was gripping it
like a club, ready to attack.
‘We’ll take him together,’ Clarisse growled.
‘Yeah,’ Grover said. Then he blinked, like he couldn’t
believe he’d just agreed with Clarisse about something.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Attack plan Macedonia.’
They nodded. We’d all taken the same training courses at
Camp Half-Blood. They knew what I was talking about. They
would sneak around either side and attack the Cyclops from
the ﬂanks while I held his attention in the front. Probably
what this meant was that we’d all die instead of just me, but
I was grateful for the help.
I hefted my sword and shouted, ‘Hey, Ugly!’
495
The giant whirled towards me. ‘Another one? Who are
you?’
‘Put down my friend, I’m the one who insulted you.’
‘You are Nobody?’
‘That’s right, you smelly bucket of nose drool!’ It didn’t
sound quite as good as Annabeth’s insults, but it was all I
could think of. ‘I’m Nobody and I’m proud of it! Now, put her
down and get over here. I want to stab your eye out again.’
‘RAAAR!’ he bellowed.
The good news: he dropped Annabeth. The bad news: he
dropped her head ﬁrst onto the rocks, where she lay
motionless as a rag doll.
The other bad news: Polyphemus barrelled towards me,
ﬁve hundred smelly kilograms of Cyclops that I would have
to ﬁght with a very small sword.
‘For Pan!’ Grover rushed in from the right. He threw his
sheep bone, which bounced harmlessly oﬀ the monster’s
forehead. Clarisse ran in from the left and set her spear
against the ground just in time for the Cyclops to step on it.
He wailed in pain, and Clarisse dived out of the way to avoid
getting trampled. But the Cyclops just plucked out the shaft
like a large splinter and kept advancing on me.
I moved in with Riptide.
The monster made a grab for me. I rolled aside and
stabbed him in the thigh.
I was hoping to see him disintegrate, but this monster was
much too big and powerful.
‘Get Annabeth!’ I yelled at Grover.
He rushed over, grabbed her invisibility cap, and picked
her up while Clarisse and I tried to keep Polyphemus
distracted.
I have to admit, Clarisse was brave. She charged the
Cyclops again and again. He pounded the ground, stomped
at her, grabbed at her, but she was too quick. And as soon
as she made an attack, I followed up by stabbing the
monster in the toe or the ankle or the hand.
496
But we couldn’t keep this up forever. Eventually we would
tire or the monster would get in a lucky shot. It would only
take one hit to kill us.
Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Grover carrying
Annabeth across the rope bridge. It wouldn’t have been my
ﬁrst choice, given the man-eating sheep on the other side,
but at the moment that looked better than this side of the
chasm, and it gave me an idea.
‘Fall back!’ I told Clarisse.
She rolled away as the Cyclops’s ﬁst smashed the olive
tree beside her.
We ran for the bridge, Polyphemus right behind us. He
was cut up and hobbling from so many wounds, but all we’d
done was slow him down and make him mad.
‘Grind you into sheep chow!’ he promised. ‘A thousand
curses on Nobody!’
‘Faster!’ I told Clarisse.
We tore down the hill. The bridge was our only chance.
Grover had just made it to the other side and was setting
Annabeth down. We had to make it across, too, before the
giant caught us.
‘Grover!’ I yelled. ‘Get Annabeth’s knife!’
His eyes widened when he saw the Cyclops behind us, but
he nodded like he understood. As Clarisse and I scrambled
across the bridge, Grover began sawing at the ropes.
The ﬁrst strand went snap!
Polyphemus bounded after us, making the bridge sway
wildly.
The ropes were now half cut. Clarisse and I dived for solid
ground, landing beside Grover. I made a wild slash with my
sword and cut the remaining ropes.
The bridge fell away into the chasm, and the Cyclops
howled … with delight, because he was standing right next
to us.
‘Failed!’ he yelled gleefully. ‘Nobody failed!’
497
Clarisse and Grover tried to charge him, but the monster
swatted them aside like ﬂies.
My anger swelled. I couldn’t believe I’d come this far, lost
Tyson, suﬀered through so much, only to fail – stopped by a
big stupid monster in a baby-blue tuxedo kilt. Nobody was
going to swat down my friends like that! I mean … nobody,
not Nobody. Ah, you know what I mean.
Strength coursed through my body. I raised my sword and
attacked, forgetting that I was hopelessly outmatched. I
jabbed the Cyclops in the belly. When he doubled over I
smacked him in the nose with the hilt of my sword. I slashed
and kicked and bashed until the next thing I knew,
Polyphemus was sprawled on his back, dazed and groaning,
and I was standing above him, the tip of my sword hovering
over his eye.
‘Uhhhhhhhh,’ Polyphemus moaned.
‘Percy!’ Grover gasped. ‘How did you –’
‘Please, noooo!’ the Cyclops moaned, pitifully staring up
at me. His nose was bleeding. A tear welled in the corner of
his half-blind eye. ‘M-m-my sheepies need me. Only trying
to protect my sheep!’
He began to sob.
I had won. All I had to do was stab – one quick strike.
‘Kill him!’ Clarisse yelled. ‘What are you waiting for?’
The Cyclops sounded so heartbroken, just like … like
Tyson.
‘He’s a Cyclops!’ Grover warned. ‘Don’t trust him!’
I knew he was right. I knew Annabeth would’ve said the
same thing.
But Polyphemus sobbed … and for the ﬁrst time it sank in
that he was a son of Poseidon, too. Like Tyson. Like me. How
could I just kill him in cold blood?
‘We only want the Fleece,’ I told the monster. ‘Will you
agree to let us take it?’
‘No!’ Clarisse shouted. ‘Kill him!’
498
The monster sniﬀed. ‘My beautiful Fleece. Prize of my
collection. Take it, cruel human. Take it and go in peace.’
‘I’m going to step back slowly,’ I told the monster. ‘One
false move…’
Polyphemus nodded like he understood.
I stepped back … and as fast as a cobra, Polyphemus
smacked me to the edge of the cliﬀ.
‘Foolish mortal!’ he bellowed, rising to his feet. ‘Take my
Fleece? Ha! I eat you ﬁrst.’
He opened his enormous mouth, and I knew that his
rotten molars were the last things I would ever see.
Then something went whoosh over my head and thump!
A rock the size of a basketball sailed into Polyphemus’s
throat – a beautiful three-pointer, nothing but net. The
Cyclops choked, trying to swallow the unexpected pill. He
staggered backwards, but there was no place to stagger. His
heel slipped, the edge of the cliﬀ crumbled, and the great
Polyphemus made chicken-wing motions that did nothing to
help him ﬂy as he tumbled into the chasm.
I turned.
Halfway down the path to the beach, standing completely
unharmed in the midst of a ﬂock of killer sheep, was an old
friend.
‘Bad Polyphemus,’ Tyson said. ‘Not all Cyclopes as nice as
we look.’
Tyson gave us the short version: Rainbow the hippocampus
– who’d apparently been following us ever since the Long
Island Sound, waiting for Tyson to play with him – had found
Tyson sinking beneath the wreckage of the CSS Birmingham
and pulled him to safety. He and Tyson had been searching
the Sea of Monsters ever since, trying to ﬁnd us, until Tyson
caught the scent of sheep and found this island.
I wanted to hug the big oaf, except he was standing in the
middle of killer sheep. ‘Tyson, thank the gods. Annabeth is
hurt!’
499
‘You thank the gods she is hurt?’ he asked, puzzled.
‘No!’ I knelt beside Annabeth and was worried sick by
what I saw. The gash on her forehead was worse than I’d
realized. Her hairline was sticky with blood. Her skin was
pale and clammy.
Grover and I exchanged nervous looks. Then an idea came
to me. ‘Tyson, the Fleece. Can you get it for me?’
‘Which one?’ Tyson said, looking around at the hundreds
of sheep.
‘In the tree!’ I said. ‘The gold one!’
‘Oh. Pretty. Yes.’
Tyson lumbered over, careful not to step on the sheep. If
any of us had tried to approach the Fleece, we would’ve
been 
eaten 
alive, 
but 
I 
guess 
Tyson 
smelled 
like
Polyphemus, because the ﬂock didn’t bother him at all. They
just cuddled up to him and bleated aﬀectionately, as though
they expected to get sheep treats from the big wicker
basket. Tyson reached up and lifted the Fleece oﬀ its
branch. Immediately the leaves on the oak tree turned
yellow. Tyson started wading back towards me, but I yelled,
‘No time! Throw it!’
The gold ram skin sailed through the air like a glittering
shag frisbee. I caught it with a grunt. It was heavier than I’d
expected – about thirty kilograms of precious gold wool.
I spread it over Annabeth, covering everything but her
face, and prayed silently to all the gods I could think of,
even the ones I didn’t like.
Please. Please.
The colour returned to her face. Her eyelids ﬂuttered
open. The cut on her forehead began to close. She saw
Grover and said weakly, ‘You’re not … married?’
Grover grinned. ‘No. My friends talked me out of it.’
‘Annabeth,’ I said, ‘just lay still.’
But, despite our protests she sat up, and I noticed that the
cut on her face was almost completely healed. She looked a
500
lot better. In fact, she shimmered with health, as if someone
had injected her with glitter.
Meanwhile, Tyson was starting to have trouble with the
sheep. ‘Down!’ he told them as they tried to climb him,
looking for food. A few were sniﬃng in our direction. ‘No,
sheepies. This way! Come here!’
They heeded him, but it was obvious they were hungry,
and they were starting to realize Tyson didn’t have any
treats for them. They wouldn’t hold out forever with so
much fresh meat nearby.
‘We have to go,’ I said. ‘Our ship is…’ The Queen Anne’s
Revenge was a very long way away. The shortest route was
across the chasm, and we’d just destroyed the only bridge.
The only other possibility was through the sheep.
‘Tyson,’ I called, ‘can you lead the ﬂock as far away as
possible?’
‘The sheep want food.’
‘I know! They want people food! Just lead them away from
the path. Give us time to get to the beach. Then join us
there.’
Tyson looked doubtful, but he whistled. ‘Come, sheepies!
Um, people food this way!’
He jogged oﬀ into the meadow, the sheep in pursuit.
‘Keep the Fleece around you,’ I told Annabeth. ‘Just in
case you’re not fully healed yet. Can you stand?’
She tried, but her face turned pale again. ‘Ohh. Not fully
healed.’
Clarisse dropped next to her and felt her chest, which
made Annabeth gasp.
‘Ribs broken,’ Clarisse said. ‘They’re mending, but
deﬁnitely broken.’
‘How can you tell?’ I asked.
Clarisse glared at me. ‘Because I’ve broken a few, runt! I’ll
have to carry her.’
Before I could argue, Clarisse picked up Annabeth like a
sack of ﬂour and lugged her down to the beach. Grover and
501
I followed.
As soon as we got to the edge of the water, I concentrated
on the Queen Anne’s Revenge. I willed it to raise anchor and
come to me. After a few anxious minutes, I saw the ship
rounding the tip of the island.
‘Incoming!’ Tyson yelled. He was bounding down the path
to join us, the sheep about ﬁfty metres behind, bleating in
frustration as their Cyclops friend ran away without feeding
them.
‘They probably won’t follow us into the water,’ I told the
others. ‘All we have to do is swim for the ship.’
‘With Annabeth like this?’ Clarisse protested.
‘We can do it,’ I insisted. I was starting to feel conﬁdent
again. I was back in my home turf – the sea. ‘Once we get to
the ship, we’re home free.’
We almost made it, too.
We were just wading past the entrance to the ravine,
when we heard a tremendous roar and saw Polyphemus,
scraped up and bruised but still very much alive, his baby-
blue wedding outﬁt in tatters, splashing towards us with a
boulder in each hand.
502
16    I Go Down with the Ship
 
‘You’d think he’d run out of rocks,’ I muttered.
‘Swim for it!’ Grover said.
He and Clarisse plunged into the surf. Annabeth hung on
to Clarisse’s neck and tried to paddle with one hand, the
wet Fleece weighing her down.
But the monster’s attention wasn’t on the Fleece.
‘You, young Cyclops!’ Polyphemus roared. ‘Traitor to your
kind!’
Tyson froze.
‘Don’t listen to him!’ I pleaded. ‘Come on.’
I pulled Tyson’s arm, but I might as well have been pulling
a mountain. He turned and faced the older Cyclops. ‘I am
not a traitor.’
‘You serve mortals!’ Polyphemus shouted. ‘Thieving
humans!’
Polyphemus threw his ﬁrst boulder. Tyson swatted it aside
with his ﬁst.
‘Not a traitor,’ Tyson said. ‘And you are not my kind.’
‘Death or victory!’ Polyphemus charged into the surf, but
his foot was still wounded. He immediately stumbled and
fell on his face. That would’ve been funny, except he started
to get up again, spitting salt water and growling.
‘Percy!’ Clarisse yelled. ‘Come on!’
They were almost to the ship with the Fleece. If I could
just keep the monster distracted a little longer…
‘Go,’ Tyson told me. ‘I will hold Big Ugly.’
‘No! He’ll kill you.’ I’d already lost Tyson once. I wasn’t
going to lose him again. ‘We’ll ﬁght him together.’
503
‘Together,’ Tyson agreed.
I drew my sword.
Polyphemus advanced carefully, limping worse than ever.
But there was nothing wrong with his throwing arm. He
chucked his second boulder. I dived to one side, but I still
would’ve been squashed if Tyson’s ﬁst hadn’t blasted the
rock to rubble.
I willed the sea to rise. A six-metre wave surged up, lifting
me on its crest. I rode towards the Cyclops and kicked him
in the eye, leaping over his head as the water blasted him
onto the beach.
‘Destroy you!’ Polyphemus spluttered. ‘Fleece stealer!’
‘You stole the Fleece!’ I yelled. ‘You’ve been using it to
lure satyrs to their deaths!’
‘So? Satyrs good eating!’
‘The Fleece should be used to heal! It belongs to the
children of the gods!’
‘I am a child of the gods!’ Polyphemus swiped at me, but I
sidestepped. ‘Father Poseidon, curse this thief!’ He was
blinking hard now, like he could barely see, and I realized he
was targeting by the sound of my voice.
‘Poseidon won’t curse me,’ I said, backing up as the
Cyclops grabbed air. ‘I’m his son, too. He won’t play
favourites.’
Polyphemus roared. He ripped an olive tree out of the side
of the cliﬀ and smashed it where I’d been standing a
moment before. ‘Humans not the same! Nasty, tricky, lying!’
Grover was helping Annabeth aboard the ship. Clarisse
was waving frantically at me, telling me to come on.
Tyson worked his way around Polyphemus, trying to get
behind him.
‘Young one!’ the older Cyclops called. ‘Where are you?
Help me!’
Tyson stopped.
‘You weren’t raised right!’ Polyphemus wailed, shaking his
olive tree club. ‘Poor orphaned brother! Help me!’
504
No one moved. No sound but the ocean and my own
heartbeat. Then Tyson stepped forward, raising his hands
defensively. ‘Don’t ﬁght, Cyclops brother. Put down the –’
Polyphemus spun towards his voice.
‘Tyson!’ I shouted.
The tree struck him with such force it would’ve ﬂattened
me into a Percy pizza with extra olives. Tyson ﬂew
backwards, ploughing a trench in the sand. Polyphemus
charged after him, but I shouted, ‘No!’ and lunged as far as I
could with Riptide. I’d hoped to sting Polyphemus in the
back of the thigh, but I managed to leap a little bit higher.
‘Blaaaaah!’ Polyphemus bleated just like his sheep, and
swung at me with his tree.
I dived, but still got raked across the back by a dozen
jagged branches. I was bleeding and bruised and exhausted.
The guinea pig inside me wanted to bolt. But I swallowed
down my fear.
Polyphemus swung the tree again, but this time I was
ready. I grabbed a branch as it passed, ignoring the pain in
my hands as I was jerked skywards, and let the Cyclops lift
me into the air. At the top of the arc I let go and fell straight
against the giant’s face – landing with both feet on his
already damaged eye.
Polyphemus yowled in pain. Tyson tackled him, pulling him
down. I landed next to them – sword in hand, within striking
distance of the monster’s heart. But I locked eyes with
Tyson, and I knew I couldn’t do it. It just wasn’t right.
‘Let him go,’ I told Tyson. ‘Run.’
With one last mighty eﬀort, Tyson pushed the cursing
older Cyclops away, and we ran for the surf.
‘I will smash you!’ Polyphemus yelled, doubling over in
pain. His enormous hands cupped over his eye.
Tyson and I plunged into the waves.
‘Where are you?’ Polyphemus screamed. He picked up his
tree club and threw it into the water. It splashed oﬀ to our
right.
505
I summoned up a current to carry us, and we started
gaining speed. I was beginning to think we might make it to
the ship, when Clarisse shouted from the deck, ‘Yeah,
Jackson! In your face, Cyclops!’
Shut up, I wanted to yell.
‘Rarrr!’ Polyphemus picked up a boulder. He threw it
towards the sound of Clarisse’s voice, but it fell short,
narrowly missing Tyson and me.
‘Yeah, yeah!’ Clarisse taunted. ‘You throw like a wimp!
Teach you to try marrying me, you idiot!’
‘Clarisse!’ I yelled, unable to stand it. ‘Shut up!’
Too late. Polyphemus threw another boulder, and this time
I watched helplessly as it sailed over my head and crashed
through the hull of the Queen Anne’s Revenge.
You wouldn’t believe how fast a ship can sink. The Queen
Anne’s Revenge creaked and groaned and listed forward like
it was going down a playground slide.
I cursed, willing the sea to push us faster, but the ship’s
masts were already going under.
‘Dive!’ I told Tyson. And as another rock sailed over our
heads, we plunged underwater.
My friends were sinking fast, trying to swim, without luck, in
the bubbly trail of the ship’s wreckage.
Not many people realize that when a ship goes down, it
acts like a sinkhole, pulling down everything around it.
Clarisse was a strong swimmer, but even she wasn’t making
any progress. Grover frantically kicked with his hooves.
Annabeth was hanging on to the Fleece, which ﬂashed in
the water like a wave of new pennies.
I swam towards them, knowing that I might not have the
strength to pull my friends out. Worse, pieces of timber were
swirling around them; none of my power with water would
help if I got whacked on the head by a beam.
We need help, I thought.
Yes. Tyson’s voice, loud and clear in my head.
506
I looked over at him, startled. I’d heard Nereids and other
water spirits speak to me underwater before, but it never
occurred to me … Tyson was a son of Poseidon. We could
communicate with each other.
Rainbow, Tyson said.
I nodded, then closed my eyes and concentrated, adding
my voice to Tyson’s: RAINBOW! We need you!
Immediately, shapes shimmered in the darkness below –
three horses with ﬁsh tails, galloping upwards faster than
dolphins. Rainbow and his friends glanced in our direction
and seemed to read our thoughts. They whisked into the
wreckage, and a moment later burst upwards in a cloud of
bubbles – Grover, Annabeth and Clarisse each clinging to
the neck of a hippocampus.
Rainbow, the largest, had Clarisse. He raced over to us
and allowed Tyson to grab hold of his mane. His friend who
bore Annabeth did the same for me.
We broke the surface of the water and raced away from
Polyphemus’s island. Behind us, I could hear the Cyclops
roaring in triumph, ‘I did it! I ﬁnally sank Nobody!’
I hoped he never found out he was wrong.
We skimmed across the sea as the island shrank to a dot
and then disappeared.
‘Did it,’ Annabeth muttered in exhaustion. ‘We…’
She slumped against the neck of the hippocampus and
instantly fell asleep.
I didn’t know how far the hippocampi could take us. I
didn’t know where we were going. I just propped up
Annabeth so she wouldn’t fall oﬀ, covered her in the Golden
Fleece that we’d been through so much to get, and said a
silent prayer of thanks.
Which reminded me … I still owed the gods a debt.
‘You’re a genius,’ I told Annabeth quietly.
Then I put my head against the Fleece, and before I knew
it I was asleep, too.
507
17    We Get a Surprise On Miami Beach
 
‘Percy, wake up.’
Salt water splashed my face. Annabeth was shaking my
shoulder.
In the distance, the sun was setting behind a city skyline. I
could see a beachside highway lined with palm trees,
storefronts glowing with red-and-blue neon, a harbour ﬁlled
with sailboats and cruise ships.
‘Miami, I think,’ Annabeth said. ‘But the hippocampi are
acting funny.’
Sure enough, our ﬁshy friends had slowed down and were
whinnying and swimming in circles, sniﬃng the water. They
didn’t look happy. One of them sneezed. I could tell what
they were thinking.
‘This is as far as they’ll take us,’ I said. ‘Too many humans.
Too much pollution. We’ll have to swim to shore on our own.’
None of us was very psyched about that, but we thanked
Rainbow and his friends for the ride. Tyson cried a little. He
unfastened the makeshift saddle pack he’d made, which
contained his tool kit and a couple of other things he’d
salvaged from the Birmingham wreck. He hugged Rainbow
around the neck, gave him a soggy mango he’d picked up
on the island and said goodbye.
Once the hippocampi’s white manes disappeared into the
sea, we swam for shore. The waves pushed us forward, and
in no time we were back in the mortal world. We wandered
along the cruise line docks, pushing through crowds of
people arriving for vacations. Porters bustled around with
carts of luggage. Taxi drivers yelled at each other in Spanish
508
and tried to cut in line for customers. If anybody noticed us
– ﬁve kids dripping wet and looking like they’d just had a
ﬁght with a monster – they didn’t let on.
Now that we were back among mortals, Tyson’s single eye
had blurred from the Mist. Grover had put on his cap and
sneakers. Even the Fleece had transformed from a
sheepskin to a red-and-gold high school letter jacket with a
large glittery Omega on the pocket.
Annabeth ran to the nearest newspaper box and checked
the date on the Miami Herald. She cursed. ‘June eighteenth!
We’ve been away from camp ten days!’
‘That’s impossible!’ Clarisse said.
But I knew it wasn’t. Time travelled diﬀerently in
monstrous places.
‘Thalia’s tree must be almost dead,’ Grover wailed. ‘We
have to get the Fleece back tonight!
Clarisse slumped down on the pavement. ‘How are we
supposed to do that?’ Her voice trembled. ‘We’re hundreds
of miles away. No money. No ride. This is just like the Oracle
said. It’s your fault, Jackson! If you hadn’t interfered –’
‘Percy’s fault?!’ Annabeth exploded. ‘Clarisse, how can
you say that? You are the biggest –’
‘Stop it!’ I said.
Clarisse put her head in her hands. Annabeth stomped her
foot in frustration.
The thing was: I’d almost forgotten this quest was
supposed to be Clarisse’s. For a scary moment, I saw things
from her point of view. How would I feel if a bunch of other
heroes had butted in and made me look bad?
I thought about what I’d overheard in the boiler room of
the CSS Birmingham – Ares yelling at Clarisse, warning her
that she’d better not fail. Ares couldn’t care less about the
camp, but if Clarisse made him look bad…
‘Clarisse,’ I said, ‘what did the Oracle tell you exactly?’
She looked up. I thought she was going to tell me oﬀ, but
instead she took a deep breath and recited her prophecy:
509
 
‘You shall sail the iron ship with warriors of bone,
You shall ﬁnd what you seek and make it your own,
But despair for your life entombed within stone,
And fail without friends, to ﬂy home alone.’
 
 
‘Ouch,’ Grover mumbled.
‘No,’ I said. ‘No … wait a minute. I’ve got it.’
I searched my pockets for money, and found nothing but a
golden drachma. ‘Does anybody have any cash?’
Annabeth and Grover shook their heads morosely. Clarisse
pulled a wet Confederate dollar from her pocket and sighed.
‘Cash?’ Tyson asked hesitantly. ‘Like … green paper?’
I looked at him. ‘Yeah.’
‘Like the kind in duﬀel bags?’
‘Yeah, but we lost those bags days a-g-g –’
I stuttered to a halt as Tyson rummaged in his saddle pack
and pulled out the airtight bag full of cash that Hermes had
included in our supplies.
‘Tyson!’ I said. ‘How did you –’
‘Thought it was a feed bag for Rainbow,’ he said. ‘Found it
ﬂoating in sea, but only paper inside. Sorry.’
He handed me the cash. Fives and tens, at least three
hundred dollars.
I ran to the kerb and grabbed a taxi that was just letting
out a family of cruise passengers. ‘Clarisse,’ I yelled. ‘Come
on. You’re going to the airport. Annabeth, give her the
Fleece.’
I’m not sure which of them looked more stunned as I took
the Fleece letter jacket from Annabeth, tucked the cash into
its pocket, and put it in Clarisse’s arms.
Clarisse said, ‘You’d let me –’
‘It’s your quest,’ I said. ‘We only have enough money for
one ﬂight. Besides, I can’t travel by air. Zeus would blast me
into a million pieces. That’s what the prophecy meant: you’d
510
fail without friends, meaning you’d need our help, but you’d
have to ﬂy home alone. You have to get the Fleece back
safely.’
I could see her mind working – suspicious at ﬁrst,
wondering what trick I was playing, then ﬁnally deciding I
meant what I said.
She jumped in the cab. ‘You can count on me. I won’t fail.’
‘Not failing would be good.’
The cab peeled out in a cloud of exhaust. The Fleece was
on its way.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, ‘that was so –’
‘Generous?’ Grover oﬀered.
‘Insane’, Annabeth corrected. ‘You’re betting the lives of
everybody at camp that Clarisse will get the Fleece safely
back by tonight?’
‘It’s her quest,’ I said. ‘She deserves a chance.’
‘Percy is nice,’ Tyson said.
‘Percy is too nice,’ Annabeth grumbled, but I couldn’t help
thinking that maybe, just maybe, she was a little impressed.
I’d surprised her, anyway. And that wasn’t easy to do.
‘Come on,’ I told my friends. ‘Let’s ﬁnd another way
home.’
That’s when I turned and found a sword’s point at my
throat.
‘Hey, cuz,’ said Luke. ‘Welcome back to the States.’
His bear-man thugs appeared on either side of us. One
grabbed Annabeth and Grover by their T-shirt collars. The
other tried to grab Tyson, but Tyson knocked him into a pile
of luggage and roared at Luke.
‘Percy,’ Luke said calmly, ‘tell your giant to back down or
I’ll have Oreius bash your friends’ heads together.’
Oreius grinned and raised Annabeth and Grover oﬀ the
ground, kicking and screaming.
‘What do you want, Luke?’ I growled.
He smiled, the scar rippling on the side of his face.
511
He gestured towards the end of the dock, and I noticed
what should’ve been obvious. The biggest boat in port was
the Princess Andromeda.
‘Why, Percy,’ Luke said, ‘I want to extend my hospitality,
of course.’
The bear-man twins herded us aboard the Princess
Andromeda. They threw us down on the aft deck in front of
a swimming pool with sparkling fountains that sprayed into
the air. A dozen of Luke’s assorted goons – snake people,
Laistrygonians, demigods in battle armour – had gathered to
watch us get some ‘hospitality’.
‘And so, the Fleece,’ Luke mused. ‘Where is it?’
He looked us over, prodding my shirt with the tip of his
sword, poking Grover’s jeans.
‘Hey!’ Grover yelled. ‘That’s real goat fur under there!’
‘Sorry, old friend.’ Luke smiled. ‘Just give me the Fleece
and I’ll leave you to return to your, ah, little nature quest.’
‘Blaa-ha-ha!’ Grover protested. ‘Some old friend!’
‘Maybe you didn’t hear me.’ Luke’s voice was dangerously
calm. ‘Where – is – the – Fleece?’
‘Not here,’ I said. I probably shouldn’t have told him
anything, but it felt good to throw the truth in his face. ‘We
sent it on ahead of us. You messed up.’
Luke’s eyes narrowed. ‘You’re lying. You couldn’t have…’
His face reddened as a horrible possibility occurred to him.
‘Clarisse?’
I nodded.
‘You trusted … you gave…’
‘Yeah.’
‘Agrius!’
The bear-man ﬂinched. ‘Y-yes?’
‘Get below and prepare my steed. Bring it to the deck. I
need to ﬂy to Miami Airport, fast!’
‘But, boss –’
‘Do it!’ Luke screamed. ‘Or I’ll feed you to the drakon!’
512
The bear-man gulped and lumbered down the stairs. Luke
paced in front of the swimming pool, cursing in Ancient
Greek, gripping his sword so tight his knuckles turned white.
The rest of Luke’s crew looked uneasy. Maybe they’d
never seen their boss so unhinged before.
I started thinking … If I could use Luke’s anger, get him to
talk so everybody could hear how crazy his plans were…
I looked at the swimming pool, at the fountains spraying
mist into the air, making a rainbow in the sunset. And
suddenly I had an idea.
‘You’ve been toying with us all along,’ I said. ‘You wanted
us to bring you the Fleece and save you the trouble of
getting it.’
Luke scowled. ‘Of course, you idiot! And you’ve messed
everything up!’
‘Traitor!’ I dug my last gold drachma out of my pocket and
threw it at Luke. As I expected, he dodged it easily. The coin
sailed into the spray of rainbow-coloured water.
I hoped my prayer would be accepted in silence. I thought
with all my heart: O goddess, accept my oﬀering.
‘You tricked all of us!’ I yelled at Luke. ‘Even DIONYSUS at
CAMP HALF-BLOOD!’
Behind Luke, the fountain began to shimmer, but I needed
everyone’s attention on me, so I uncapped Riptide.
Luke just sneered. ‘This is no time for heroics, Percy. Drop
your puny little sword, or I’ll have you killed sooner rather
than later.’
‘Who poisoned Thalia’s tree, Luke?’
‘I did, of course,’ he snarled. ‘I already told you that. I
used elder python venom, straight from the depths of
Tartarus.’
‘Chiron had nothing to do with it?’
‘Ha! You know he would never do that. The old fool
wouldn’t have the guts.’
‘You call it guts? Betraying your friends? Endangering the
whole camp?’
513
Luke raised his sword. ‘You don’t understand the half of it.
I was going to let you take the Fleece … once I was done
with it.’
That made me hesitate. Why would he let me take the
Fleece? He must’ve been lying. But I couldn’t aﬀord to lose
his attention.
‘You were going to heal Kronos,’ I said.
‘Yes! The Fleece’s magic would’ve sped his mending
process by tenfold. But you haven’t stopped us, Percy.
You’ve only slowed us down a little.’
‘And so you poisoned the tree, you betrayed Thalia, you
set us up – all to help Kronos destroy the gods.’
Luke gritted his teeth. ‘You know that! Why do you keep
asking me?’
‘Because I want everybody in the audience to hear you.’
‘What audience?’
Then his eyes narrowed. He looked behind him and his
goons did the same. They gasped and stumbled back.
Above the pool, shimmering in the rainbow mist, was an
Iris-message vision of Dionysus, Tantalus and the whole
camp in the dining pavilion. They sat in stunned silence,
watching us.
‘Well,’ said Dionysus drily, ‘some unplanned dinner
entertainment.’
‘Mr D, you heard him,’ I said. ‘You all heard Luke. The
poisoning of the tree wasn’t Chiron’s fault.’
Mr D sighed. ‘I suppose not.’
‘The Iris-message could be a trick,’ Tantalus suggested,
but his attention was mostly on his cheeseburger, which he
was trying to corner with both hands.
‘I fear not,’ Mr D said, looking with distaste at Tantalus. ‘It
appears I shall have to reinstate Chiron as activities director.
I suppose I do miss the old horse’s pinochle games.’
Tantalus grabbed the cheeseburger. It didn’t bolt away
from him. He lifted it from the plate and stared at it in
514
amazement, as if it were the largest diamond in the world. ‘I
got it!’ he cackled.
‘We are no longer in need of your services, Tantalus,’ Mr D
announced.
Tantalus looked stunned. ‘What? But –’
‘You may return to the Underworld. You are dismissed.’
‘No! But – Nooooooooooo!’
As he dissolved into mist, his ﬁngers clutched at the
cheeseburger, trying to bring it to his mouth. But it was too
late. He disappeared and the cheeseburger fell back onto its
plate. The campers exploded into cheering.
Luke bellowed with rage. He slashed his sword through
the fountain and the Iris-message dissolved, but the deed
was done.
I was feeling pretty good about myself, until Luke turned
and gave me a murderous look.
‘Kronos was right, Percy. You’re an unreliable weapon. You
need to be replaced.’
I wasn’t sure what he meant, but I didn’t have time to
think about it. One of his men blew a brass whistle, and the
deck doors ﬂew open. A dozen more warriors poured out,
making a circle around us, the brass tips of their spears
bristling.
Luke smiled at me. ‘You’ll never leave this boat alive.’
515
18    The Party Ponies Invade
 
‘One on one,’ I challenged Luke. ‘What are you afraid of?’
Luke curled his lip. The soldiers who were about to kill us
hesitated, waiting for his order.
Before he could say anything, Agrius, the bear-man, burst
onto the deck leading a ﬂying horse. It was the ﬁrst pure-
black pegasus I’d ever seen, with wings like a giant raven.
The pegasus mare bucked and whinnied. I could understand
her thoughts. She was calling Agrius and Luke some names
so bad Chiron would’ve washed her muzzle out with saddle
soap.
‘Sir!’ Agrius called, dodging a pegasus hoof. ‘Your steed is
ready!’
Luke kept his eyes on me.
‘I told you last summer, Percy,’ he said. ‘You can’t bait me
into a ﬁght.’
‘And you keep avoiding one,’ I noticed. ‘Scared your
warriors will see you get whipped?’
Luke glanced at his men, and he saw I’d trapped him. If he
backed down now, he would look weak. If he fought me,
he’d lose valuable time chasing after Clarisse. For my part,
the best I could hope for was to distract him, giving my
friends a chance to escape. If anybody could think of a plan
to get them out of there, Annabeth could. On the downside,
I knew how good Luke was at sword-ﬁghting.
‘I’ll kill you quickly,’ he decided, and raised his weapon.
Backbiter was a foot longer than my own sword. Its blade
glinted with an evil grey-and-gold light where the human
steel had been melded with celestial bronze. I could almost
516
feel the blade ﬁghting against itself, like two opposing
magnets bound together. I didn’t know how the blade had
been made, but I sensed a tragedy. Someone had died in
the process. Luke whistled to one of his men, who threw him
a round leather-and-bronze shield.
He grinned at me wickedly.
‘Luke,’ Annabeth said, ‘at least give him a shield.’
‘Sorry, Annabeth,’ he said. ‘You bring your own equipment
to this party.’
The shield was a problem. Fighting two-handed with just a
sword gives you more power, but ﬁghting one-handed with a
shield gives you better defence and versatility. There are
more moves, more options, more ways to kill. I thought back
to Chiron, who’d told me to stay at camp no matter what,
and learn to ﬁght. Now I was going to pay for not listening to
him.
Luke lunged and almost killed me on the ﬁrst try. His
sword went under my arm, slashing through my shirt and
grazing my ribs.
I jumped back, then counter-attacked with Riptide, but
Luke slammed my blade away with his shield.
‘My, Percy,’ Luke chided. ‘You’re out of practice.’
He came at me again with a swipe to the head. I parried,
returned with a thrust. He sidestepped easily.
The cut on my ribs stung. My heart was racing. When Luke
lunged again, I jumped backwards into the swimming pool
and felt a surge of strength. I spun underwater, creating a
funnel cloud, and blasted out of the deep end, straight at
Luke’s face.
The force of the water knocked him down, spluttering and
blinded. But before I could strike, he rolled aside and was on
his feet again.
I attacked and sliced oﬀ the edge of his shield, but that
didn’t even faze him. He dropped to a crouch and jabbed at
my legs. Suddenly my thigh was on ﬁre, with a pain so
intense I collapsed. My jeans were ripped above the knee. I
517
was hurt. I didn’t know how badly. Luke hacked downwards
and I rolled behind a deckchair. I tried to stand, but my leg
wouldn’t take the weight.
‘Perrrrrcy!’ Grover bleated.
I rolled again as Luke’s sword slashed the deckchair in
half, metal pipes and all.
I clawed towards the swimming pool, trying hard not to
black out. I’d never make it. Luke knew it, too. He advanced
slowly, smiling. The edge of his sword was tinged with red.
‘One thing I want you to watch before you die, Percy.’ He
looked at the bear-man Oreius, who was still holding
Annabeth and Grover by the necks. ‘You can eat your dinner
now, Oreius. Bon appétit.’
‘He-he! He-he!’ The bear-man lifted my friends and bared
his teeth.
That’s when all Hades broke loose.
Whish!
A red-feathered arrow sprouted from Oreius’s mouth. With
a surprised look on his hairy face, he crumpled to the deck.
‘Brother!’ Agrius wailed. He let the pegasus’s reins go
slack just long enough for the black steed to kick him in the
head and ﬂy away free over Miami Bay.
For a split second, Luke’s guards were too stunned to do
anything except watch the bear twins’ bodies dissolve into
smoke.
Then there was a wild chorus of war cries and hooves
thundering against metal. A dozen centaurs charged out of
the main stairwell.
‘Ponies!’ Tyson cried with delight.
My mind had trouble processing everything I saw. Chiron
was among the crowd, but his relatives were almost nothing
like him. There were centaurs with black Arabian stallion
bodies, others with gold palomino coats, others with orange-
and-white spots like paint horses. Some wore brightly
coloured T-shirts with Day-Glo letters that said PARTY
PONIES: SOUTH FLORIDA CHAPTER. Some were armed with
518
bows, some with baseball bats, some with paintball guns.
One had his face painted like a Comanche warrior and was
waving a large orange Styrofoam hand making a big
Number I. Another was bare-chested and painted entirely
green. A third had googly-eye glasses with the eyeballs
bouncing around on Slinky coils, and one of those baseball
caps with soda-can-and-straw attachments on either side.
They exploded onto the deck with such ferocity and colour
that for a moment even Luke was stunned. I couldn’t tell
whether they had come to celebrate or attack.
Apparently both. As Luke was raising his sword to rally his
troops, a centaur shot a custom-made arrow with a leather
boxing glove on the end. It smacked Luke in the face and
sent him crashing into the swimming pool.
His warriors scattered. I couldn’t blame them. Facing the
hooves of a rearing stallion is scary enough, but when it’s a
centaur, armed with a bow and whooping it up in a soda-
drinking hat, even the bravest warrior would retreat.
‘Come get some!’ yelled one of the party ponies.
They let loose with their paintball guns. A wave of blue
and yellow exploded against Luke’s warriors, blinding them
and splattering them from head to toe. They tried to run,
only to slip and fall.
Chiron galloped towards Annabeth and Grover, neatly
plucked them oﬀ the deck, and deposited them on his back.
I tried to get up, but my wounded leg still felt like it was
on ﬁre.
Luke was crawling out of the pool.
‘Attack, you fools!’ he ordered his troops. Somewhere
down below deck, a large alarm bell thrummed.
I knew any second we would be swamped by Luke’s
reinforcements. Already, his warriors were getting over their
surprise, coming at the centaurs with swords and spears
drawn.
Tyson slapped half a dozen of them aside, knocking them
over the guardrail into Miami Bay. But more warriors were
519
coming up the stairs.
‘Withdraw, brethren!’ Chiron said.
‘You won’t get away with this, horse man!’ Luke shouted.
He raised his sword, but got smacked in the face with
another boxing glove arrow, and sat down hard in a
deckchair.
A palomino centaur hoisted me onto his back. ‘Dude, get
your big friend!’
‘Tyson!’ I yelled. ‘Come on!’
Tyson dropped the two warriors he was about to tie into a
knot and jogged after us. He jumped on the centaur’s back.
‘Dude!’ the centaur groaned, almost buckling under
Tyson’s weight. ‘Do the words “low-carb diet” mean
anything to you?’
Luke’s warriors were organizing themselves into a
phalanx. But by the time they were ready to advance, the
centaurs had galloped to the edge of the deck and fearlessly
jumped the guardrail, as if it were a steeplechase and not
ten storeys above the ground. I was sure we were going to
die. We plummeted towards the docks, but the centaurs hit
the tarmac with hardly a jolt and galloped oﬀ, whooping and
yelling taunts at the Princess Andromeda as we raced into
the streets of downtown Miami.
I have no idea what the Miamians thought as we galloped
by.
Streets and buildings began to blur as the centaurs picked
up speed. It felt as if space were compacting – as if each
centaur step took us miles and miles. In no time, we’d left
the city behind. We raced through marshy ﬁelds of high
grass and ponds and stunted trees.
Finally, we found ourselves in a trailer park at the edge of
a lake. The trailers were all horse trailers, tricked out with
televisions and mini-refrigerators and mosquito netting. We
were in a centaur camp.
520
‘Dude!’ said a party pony as he unloaded his gear. ‘Did
you see that bear guy? He was all like, “Whoa, I have an
arrow in my mouth!” ’
The centaur with the googly-eye glasses laughed. ‘That
was awesome! Head slam!’
The two centaurs charged at each other full-force and
knocked heads, then went staggering oﬀ in diﬀerent
directions with crazy grins on their faces.
Chiron sighed. He set Annabeth and Grover down on a
picnic blanket next to me. ‘I really wish my cousins wouldn’t
slam their heads together. They don’t have the brain cells to
spare.’
‘Chiron,’ I said, still stunned by the fact that he was here.
‘You saved us.’
He gave me a dry smile. ‘Well now, I couldn’t very well let
you die, especially since you’ve cleared my name.’
‘But how did you know where we were?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Advanced planning, my dear. I ﬁgured you would wash up
near Miami if you made it out of the Sea of Monsters alive.
Almost everything strange washes up near Miami.’
‘Gee, thanks,’ Grover mumbled.
‘No, no,’ Chiron said. ‘I didn’t mean … Oh, never mind. I
am glad to see you, my young satyr. The point is, I was able
to eavesdrop on Percy’s Iris-message and trace the signal.
Iris and I have been friends for centuries. I asked her to alert
me to any important communications in this area. It then
took no eﬀort to convince my cousins to ride to your aid. As
you see, centaurs can travel quite fast when we wish to.
Distance for us is not the same as distance for humans.’
I looked over at the campﬁre, where three party ponies
were teaching Tyson to operate a paintball gun. I hoped they
knew what they were getting into.
‘So what now?’ I asked Chiron. ‘We just let Luke sail away?
He’s got Kronos aboard that ship. Or parts of him, anyway.’
Chiron knelt, carefully folding his front legs underneath
him. He opened the medicine pouch on his belt and started
521
to treat my wounds. ‘I’m afraid, Percy, that today has been
something of a draw. We didn’t have the strength of
numbers to take that ship. Luke was not organized enough
to pursue us. Nobody won.’
‘But we got the Fleece!’ Annabeth said. ‘Clarisse is on her
way back to camp with it right now.’
Chiron nodded, though he still looked uneasy. ‘You are all
true heroes. And as soon as we get Percy ﬁxed up, you must
return to Half-Blood Hill. The centaurs shall carry you.’
‘You’re coming, too?’ I asked.
‘Oh yes, Percy. I’ll be relieved to get home. My brethren
here simply do not appreciate Dean Martin’s music. Besides,
I must have some words with Mr D. There’s the rest of the
summer to plan. So much training to do. And I want to see
… I’m curious about the Fleece.’
I didn’t know exactly what he meant, but it made me
worried about what Luke had said: I was going to let you
take the Fleece … once I was done with it.
Had he just been lying? I’d learned with Kronos there was
usually a plan within a plan. The titan lord wasn’t called the
Crooked One for nothing. He had ways of getting people to
do what he wanted without them ever realizing his true
intentions.
Over by the campﬁre, Tyson let loose with his paintball
gun. A blue projectile splattered against one of the centaurs,
hurling him backwards into the lake. The centaur came up
grinning, covered in swamp muck and blue paint, and gave
Tyson two thumbs up.
‘Annabeth,’ Chiron said, ‘perhaps you and Grover would
go supervise Tyson and my cousins before they, ah, teach
each other too many bad habits?’
Annabeth met his eyes. Some kind of understanding
passed between them.
‘Sure, Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘Come on, goat boy.’
‘But I don’t like paintball.’
522
‘Yes, you do.’ She hoisted Grover to his hooves and led
him oﬀ towards the campﬁre.
Chiron ﬁnished bandaging my leg. ‘Percy, I had a talk with
Annabeth on the way here. A talk about the prophecy.’
Uh-oh, I thought.
‘It wasn’t her fault,’ I said. ‘I made her tell me.’
His eyes ﬂickered with irritation. I was sure he was going
to chew me out, but then his look turned to weariness. ‘I
suppose I could not expect to keep it secret forever.’
‘So am I the one in the prophecy?’
Chiron tucked his bandages back into his pouch. ‘I wish I
knew, Percy. You’re not yet sixteen. For now we must simply
train you as best we can, and leave the future to the Fates.’
The Fates. I hadn’t thought about those old ladies in a
long time, but as soon as Chiron mentioned them,
something clicked.
‘That’s what it meant,’ I said.
Chiron frowned. ‘That’s what what meant?’
‘Last summer. The omen from the Fates, when I saw them
snip somebody’s life string. I thought it meant I was going to
die right away, but it’s worse than that. It’s got something
to do with your prophecy. The death they foretold – it’s
going to happen when I’m sixteen.’
Chiron’s tail whisked nervously in the grass. ‘My boy, you
can’t be sure of that. We don’t even know if the prophecy is
about you.’
‘But there isn’t any other half-blood child of the Big
Three!’
‘That we know of.’
‘And Kronos is rising. He’s going to destroy Mount
Olympus!’
‘He will try,’ Chiron agreed. ‘And Western Civilization
along with it, if we don’t stop him. But we will stop him. You
will not be alone in that ﬁght.’
I knew he was trying to make me feel better, but I
remembered what Annabeth had told me. It would come
523
down to one hero. One decision that would save or destroy
the West. And I felt sure the Fates had been giving me some
kind of warning about that. Something terrible was going to
happen, either to me or to somebody I was close to.
‘I’m just a kid, Chiron,’ I said miserably. ‘What good is one
lousy hero against something like Kronos?’
Chiron managed a smile. ‘ “What good is one lousy hero?’
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain said something like that to
me once, just before he single-handedly changed the course
of your Civil War.’
He pulled an arrow from his quiver and turned the razor-
sharp tip so it glinted in the ﬁrelight. ‘Celestial bronze, Percy.
An immortal weapon. What would happen if you shot this at
a human?’
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘It would pass right through.’
‘That’s right,’ he said. ‘Humans don’t exist on the same
level as the immortals. They can’t even be hurt by our
weapons. But you, Percy – you are part god, part human.
You live in both worlds. You can be harmed by both, and you
can aﬀect both. That’s what makes heroes so special. You
carry the hopes of humanity into the realm of the eternal.
Monsters never die. They are reborn from the chaos and
barbarism that is always bubbling underneath civilization,
the very stuﬀ that makes Kronos stronger. They must be
defeated again and again, kept at bay. Heroes embody that
struggle. You ﬁght the battles humanity must win, every
generation, in order to stay human. Do you understand?’
‘I … I don’t know.’
‘You must try, Percy. Because whether or not you are the
child of the prophecy, Kronos thinks you might be. And,
after today, he will ﬁnally despair of turning you to his side.
That is the only reason he hasn’t killed you yet, you know.
As soon as he’s sure he can’t use you, he will destroy you.’
‘You talk like you know him.’
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘I do know him.’
524
I stared at him. I sometimes forgot just how old Chiron
was. ‘Is that why Mr D blamed you when the tree was
poisoned? Why you said some people don’t trust you?’
‘Indeed.’
‘But Chiron … I mean, come on! Why would they think
you’d ever betray the camp for Kronos?’
Chiron’s eyes were deep brown, full of thousands of years
of sadness. ‘Percy, remember your training. Remember your
study of mythology. What is my connection to the titan
lord?’
I tried to think, but I’d always got my mythology mixed up.
Even now, when it was so real, so important to my own life, I
had trouble keeping all the names and facts straight. I shook
my head. ‘You, uh, owe Kronos a favour or something? He
spared your life?’
‘Percy,’ Chiron said, his voice impossibly soft. ‘The titan
Kronos is my father.’
525
19    The Chariot Race Ends with a Bang
 
We arrived in Long Island just after Clarisse, thanks to the
centaurs’ travel powers. I rode on Chiron’s back, but we
didn’t talk much, especially not about Kronos. I knew it had
been diﬃcult for Chiron to tell me. I didn’t want to push him
with 
more 
questions. 
I 
mean, 
I’ve 
met 
plenty 
of
embarrassing parents, but Kronos, the evil titan lord who
wanted to destroy Western Civilization? Not the kind of dad
you invited to school for career day.
When we got to camp, the centaurs were anxious to meet
Dionysus. They’d heard he threw some really wild parties,
but they were disappointed. The wine god was in no mood
to celebrate as the whole camp gathered at the top of Half-
Blood Hill.
The camp had been through a hard two weeks. The arts
and crafts cabin had burned to the ground from an attack by
a Draco Aionius (which as near as I could ﬁgure was Latin
for ‘really-big-lizard-with-breath-that-blows-stuﬀ-up’). The
Big House’s rooms were overﬂowing with wounded. The kids
in the Apollo cabin, who were the best healers, had been
working overtime performing ﬁrst aid. Everybody looked
weary and battered as we crowded around Thalia’s tree.
The moment Clarisse draped the Golden Fleece over the
lowest bough, the moonlight seemed to brighten, turning
from grey to liquid silver. A cool breeze rustled in the
branches and rippled through the grass, all the way into the
valley. Everything came into sharper focus – the glow of the
ﬁreﬂies down in the woods, the smell of the strawberry
ﬁelds, the sound of the waves on the beach.
526
Gradually, the needles on the pine tree started turning
from brown to green.
Everybody cheered. It was happening slowly, but there
could be no doubt – the Fleece’s magic was seeping into the
tree, ﬁlling it with new power and expelling the poison.
Chiron ordered a twenty-four/seven guard duty on the
hilltop, at least until he could ﬁnd an appropriate monster to
protect the Fleece. He said he’d place an ad in Olympus
Weekly right away.
In the meantime, Clarisse was carried on her cabin mates’
shoulders down to the amphitheatre, where she was
honoured with a laurel wreath and a lot of celebrating
around the campﬁre.
Nobody gave Annabeth or me a second look. It was as. if
we’d never left. In a way, I guess that was the best thank-
you anyone could give us, because if they admitted we’d
snuck out of camp to do the quest, they’d have to expel us.
And, really, I didn’t want any more attention. It felt good to
be just one of the campers for once.
Later that night, as we were roasting marshmallows and
listening to the Stoll brothers tell us a ghost story about an
evil king who was eaten alive by demonic breakfast
pastries, Clarisse shoved me from behind and whispered in
my ear, ‘Just because you were cool one time, Jackson, don’t
think you’re oﬀ the hook with Ares. I’m still waiting for the
right opportunity to pulverize you.’
 
I gave her a grudging smile.
‘What?’ she demanded.
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘Just good to be home.’
 
 
The next morning, after the party ponies headed back to
Florida, Chiron made a surprise announcement: the chariot
races would go ahead as scheduled. We’d all ﬁgured they
527
were history now that Tantalus was gone, but completing
them did feel like the right thing to do, especially now that
Chiron was back and the camp was safe.
Tyson wasn’t too keen on the idea of getting back in a
chariot after our ﬁrst experience, but he was happy to let
me team up with Annabeth. I would drive, Annabeth would
defend, and Tyson would act as our pit crew. While I worked
with the horses, Tyson ﬁxed up Athena’s chariot and added
a whole bunch of special modiﬁcations.
We spent the next two days training like crazy. Annabeth
and I agreed that if we won, the prize of no chores for the
rest of the month would be split between our two cabins.
Since Athena had more campers, they would get most of the
time oﬀ, which was ﬁne by me. I didn’t care about the prize.
I just wanted to win.
The night before the race, I stayed late at the stables. I
was talking to our horses, giving them one ﬁnal brushing,
when somebody right behind me said, ‘Fine animals, horses.
Wish I’d thought of them.’
A middle-aged guy in a postal carrier outﬁt was leaning
against the stable door. He was slim, with curly black hair
under his white pith helmet, and he had a mailbag slung
over his shoulder.
‘Hermes?’ I stammered.
‘Hello, Percy. Didn’t recognize me without my jogging
clothes?’
‘Uh…’ I wasn’t sure whether I was supposed to kneel or
buy stamps from him or what. Then it occurred to me why
he must be here. ‘Oh, listen, Lord Hermes, about Luke…’
The god arched his eyebrows.
‘Uh, we saw him, all right,’ I said, ‘but –’
‘You weren’t able to talk sense into him?’
‘Well, we kind of tried to kill each other in a duel to the
death.’
‘I see. You tried the diplomatic approach.’
528
‘I’m really sorry. I mean, you gave us those awesome gifts
and everything. And I know you wanted Luke to come back.
But … he’s turned bad. Really bad. He said he feels like you
abandoned him.’
I waited for Hermes to get angry. I ﬁgured he’d turn me
into a hamster or something, and I did not want to spend
any more time as a rodent.
Instead, he just sighed. ‘Do you ever feel your father
abandoned you, Percy?’
Oh, man.
I wanted to say, ‘Only a few hundred times a day.’ I hadn’t
spoken to Poseidon since last summer. I’d never even been
to his underwater palace. And then there was the whole
thing with Tyson – no warning, no explanation. Just boom,
you have a brother. You’d think that deserved a little heads-
up phone call or something.
The more I thought about it, the angrier I got. I realized I
did want recognition for the quest I’d completed, but not
from the other campers. I wanted my dad to say something.
To notice me.
Hermes readjusted the mailbag on his shoulder. ‘Percy,
the hardest part about being a god is that you must often
act indirectly, especially when it comes to your own
children. If we were to intervene every time our children had
a problem … well, that would only create more problems
and more resentment. But I believe if you give it some
thought, you will see that Poseidon has been paying
attention to you. He has answered your prayers. I can only
hope that some day, Luke may realize the same about me.
Whether you feel like you succeeded or not, you reminded
Luke who he was. You spoke to him.’
‘I tried to kill him.’
Hermes shrugged. ‘Families are messy. Immortal families
are eternally messy. Sometimes the best we can do is to
remind each other that we’re related, for better or worse …
and try to keep the maiming and killing to a minimum.’
529
It didn’t sound like much of a recipe for the perfect family.
Then again, as I thought about my quest, I realized maybe
Hermes was right. Poseidon had sent the hippocampi to help
us. He’d given me powers over the sea that I’d never known
about before. And there was Tyson. Had Poseidon brought us
together on purpose? How many times had Tyson saved my
life this summer?
In the distance, the conch horn sounded, signalling
curfew.
‘You should get to bed,’ Hermes said. ‘I’ve helped you get
into quite enough trouble this summer already. I really only
came to make this delivery.’
‘A delivery?’
‘I am the messenger of the gods, Percy.’ He took an
electronic signature pad from his mailbag and handed it to
me. ‘Sign there, please.’
I picked up the stylus before realizing it was entwined with
a pair of tiny green snakes. ‘Ah!’ I dropped the pad.
Ouch, said George.
Really, Percy, Martha scolded. Would you want to be
dropped on the ﬂoor of a horse stable?
‘Oh, uh, sorry.’ I didn’t much like touching snakes, but I
picked up the pad and the stylus again. Martha and George
wriggled under my ﬁngers, forming a kind of pencil grip like
the ones my special ed teacher made me use in second
grade.
Did you bring me a rat? George asked.
‘No…’ I said. ‘Uh, we didn’t ﬁnd any.’
What about a guinea pig?
George! Martha chided. Don’t tease the boy.
I signed my name and gave the pad back to Hermes.
In exchange, he handed me a sea-blue envelope.
My ﬁngers trembled. Even before I opened it, I could tell it
was from my father. I could sense his power in the cool blue
paper, as if the envelope itself had been folded out of an
ocean wave.
530
‘Good luck tomorrow,’ Hermes said. ‘Fine team of horses
you have there, though you’ll excuse me if I root for the
Hermes cabin.’
And don’t be too discouraged when you read it, dear,
Martha told me. He does have your interests at heart.
‘What do you mean?’ I asked.
Don’t mind her, George said. And next time, remember,
snakes work for tips.
‘Enough, you two,’ Hermes said. ‘Goodbye, Percy. For
now.’
Small white wings sprouted from his pith helmet. He
began to glow, and I knew enough about the gods to avert
my eyes before he revealed his true divine form. With a
brilliant white ﬂash he was gone, and I was alone with the
horses.
I stared at the blue envelope in my hands. It was
addressed in strong but elegant handwriting that I’d seen
once before, on a package Poseidon had sent me last
summer.
Percy Jackson
c/o Camp Half-Blood
Farm Road 3.141
Long Island, New york 11954
 
An actual letter from my father. Maybe he would tell me I’d
done a good job getting the Fleece. He’d explain about
Tyson, or apologize for not talking to me sooner. There were
so many things that I wanted that letter to say.
I opened the envelope and unfolded the paper.
Two simple words were printed in the middle of the page:
Brace yourself.
 
The next morning, everybody was buzzing about the chariot
race, though they kept glancing nervously towards the sky
531
like they expected to see Stymphalian birds gathering. None
did. It was a beautiful summer day with blue sky and plenty
of sunshine. The camp had started to look the way it should
look: the meadows were green and lush; the white columns
gleamed on the Greek buildings; dryads played happily in
the woods.
And I was miserable. I’d been lying awake all night,
thinking about Poseidon’s warning.
Brace yourself.
I mean, he goes to the trouble of writing a letter, and he
writes two words?
Martha the snake had told me not to feel disappointed.
Maybe Poseidon had a reason for being so vague. Maybe he
didn’t know exactly what he was warning me about, but he
sensed something big was about to happen – something
that could completely knock me oﬀ my feet unless I was
prepared. It was hard, but I tried to turn my thoughts to the
race.
As Annabeth and I drove onto the track, I couldn’t help
admiring the work Tyson had done on the Athena chariot.
The carriage gleamed with bronze reinforcements. The
wheels were realigned with magical suspension so we glided
along with hardly a bump. The rigging for the horses was so
perfectly balanced that the team turned at the slightest tug
of the reins.
Tyson had also made us two javelins, each with three
buttons on the shaft. The ﬁrst button primed the javelin to
explode on impact, releasing razor wire that would tangle
and shred an opponent’s wheels. The second button
produced a blunt (but still very painful) bronze spearhead
designed to knock a driver out of his carriage. The third
button brought up a grappling hook that could be used to
lock on to an enemy’s chariot or push it away.
I ﬁgured we were in pretty good shape for the race, but
Tyson still warned me to be careful. The other chariot teams
had plenty of tricks up their togas.
532
‘Here,’ he said, just before the race began.
He handed me a wristwatch. There wasn’t anything
special about it – just a white-and-silver clock face, a black
leather strap – but as soon as I saw it I realized that this was
what I’d seen him tinkering on all summer.
I didn’t usually like to wear watches. Who cared what time
it was? But I couldn’t say no to Tyson.
‘Thanks, man.’ I put it on and found it was surprisingly
light and comfortable. I could hardly tell I was wearing it.
‘Didn’t ﬁnish in time for the trip,’ Tyson mumbled. ‘Sorry,
sorry.’
‘Hey, man. No big deal.’
‘If you need protection in race,’ he advised, ‘hit the
button.’
‘Ah, okay.’ I didn’t see how keeping time was going to help
a whole lot, but I was touched that Tyson was concerned. I
promised him I’d remember the watch. ‘And, hey, um,
Tyson…’
He looked at me.
‘I wanted to say, well…’ I tried to ﬁgure out how to
apologize for getting embarrassed about him before the
quest, for telling everyone he wasn’t my real brother. It
wasn’t easy to ﬁnd the words.
‘I know what you will tell me,’ Tyson said, looking
ashamed. ‘Poseidon did care for me after all.’
‘Uh, well –’
‘He sent you to help me. Just what I asked for.’
I blinked. ‘You asked Poseidon for … me?’
‘For a friend,’ Tyson said, twisting his shirt in his hands.
‘Young Cyclopes grow up alone on the streets, learn to make
things out of scraps. Learn to survive.’
‘But that’s so cruel!’
He shook his head earnestly. ‘Makes us appreciate
blessings, not be greedy and mean and fat like Polyphemus.
But I got scared. Monsters chased me so much, clawed me
sometimes –’
533
‘The scars on your back?’
A tear welled in his eye. ‘Sphinx on Seventy-second
Street. Big bully. I prayed to Daddy for help. Soon the people
at Meriwether found me. Met you. Biggest blessing ever.
Sorry I said Poseidon was mean. He sent me a brother.’
I stared at the watch that Tyson had made me.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth called. ‘Come on!’
Chiron was at the starting line, ready to blow the conch.
‘Tyson…’ I said.
‘Go,’ Tyson said. ‘You will win!’
‘I – yeah, okay, big guy. We’ll win this one for you.’ I
climbed on board the chariot and got into position just as
Chiron blew the starting signal.
The horses knew what to do. We shot down the track so
fast I would’ve fallen out if my arms hadn’t been wrapped in
the leather reins. Annabeth held on tight to the rail. The
wheels glided beautifully. We took the ﬁrst turn a full
chariot-length ahead of Clarisse, who was busy trying to
ﬁght oﬀ a javelin attack from the Stoll brothers in the
Hermes chariot.
‘We’ve got ’em!’ I yelled, but I spoke too soon.
‘Incoming!’ Annabeth yelled. She threw her ﬁrst javelin in
grappling-hook mode, knocking away a lead-weighted net
that would have entangled us both. Apollo’s chariot had
come up on our ﬂank. Before Annabeth could rearm herself,
the Apollo warrior threw a javelin into our right wheel. The
javelin shattered, but not before snapping some of our
spokes. Our chariot lurched and wobbled. I was sure the
wheel would collapse altogether, but we somehow kept
going.
I urged the horses to keep up the speed. We were now
neck and neck with Apollo. Hephaestus was coming up close
behind. Ares and Hermes were falling behind, riding side by
side as Clarisse went sword-on-javelin with Connor Stoll.
If we took one more hit to our wheel, I knew we would
capsize.
534
‘You’re mine!’ the driver from Apollo yelled. He was a ﬁrst-
year camper. I didn’t remember his name, but he sure was
conﬁdent.
‘Yeah, right!’ Annabeth yelled back.
She picked up her second javelin – a real risk considering
we still had one full lap to go – and threw it at the Apollo
driver.
Her aim was perfect. The javelin grew a heavy spear point
just as it caught the driver in the chest, knocking him
against his teammate and sending them both toppling out
of their chariot in a backwards somersault. The horses felt
the reins go slack and went crazy, riding straight for the
crowd. Campers scrambled for cover as the horses leaped
the corner of the stands and the golden chariot ﬂipped over.
The horses galloped back towards their stable, dragging the
upside-down chariot behind them.
I held our own chariot together through the second turn,
despite the groaning of the right wheel. We passed the
starting line and thundered into our ﬁnal lap.
The axle creaked and moaned. The wobbling wheel was
making us lose speed, even though the horses were
responding to my every command, running like a well-oiled
machine.
The Hephaestus team was still gaining.
Beckendorf grinned as he pressed a button on his
command console. Steel cables shot out of the front of his
mechanical horses, wrapping around our back rail. Our
chariot shuddered as Beckendorf’s winch system started
working – pulling us backwards while Beckendorf pulled
himself forward.
Annabeth cursed and drew her knife. She hacked at the
cables but they were too thick.
‘Can’t cut them!’ she yelled.
The Hephaestus chariot was now dangerously close, their
horses about to trample us underfoot.
‘Switch with me!’ I told Annabeth. ‘Take the reins!’
535
‘But –’
‘Trust me!’
She pulled herself to the front and grabbed the reins. I
turned, trying hard to keep my footing, and uncapped
Riptide.
I slashed down and the cables snapped like kite string. We
lurched forward, but Beckendorf’s driver just swung his
chariot to our left and pulled up next to us. Beckendorf drew
his sword. He slashed at Annabeth and I parried the blade
away.
We were coming up on the last turn. We’d never make it. I
needed to disable the Hephaestus chariot and get it out of
the way, but I had to protect Annabeth, too. Just because
Beckendorf was a nice guy didn’t mean he wouldn’t send us
both to the inﬁrmary if we let our guard down.
We were neck and neck now, Clarisse coming up from
behind, making up for lost time.
‘See ya, Percy!’ Beckendorf yelled. ‘Here’s a little parting
gift!’
He threw a leather pouch into our chariot. It stuck to the
ﬂoor immediately and began billowing green smoke.
‘Greek ﬁre!’ Annabeth yelled.
I cursed. I’d heard stories about what Greek ﬁre could do. I
ﬁgured we had maybe ten seconds before it exploded.
‘Get rid of it!’ Annabeth shouted, but I couldn’t.
Hephaestus’s chariot was still alongside, waiting until the
last second to make sure their little present blew up.
Beckendorf was keeping me busy with his sword. If I let my
guard down long enough to deal with the Greek ﬁre,
Annabeth would get sliced and we’d crash anyway. I tried to
kick the leather pouch away with my foot, but I couldn’t. It
was stuck fast.
Then I remembered the watch.
I didn’t know how it could help, but I managed to punch
the stopwatch button. Instantly, the watch changed. It
expanded, the metal rim spiralling outwards like an old-
536
fashioned camera shutter, a leather strap wrapping around
my forearm until I was holding a round war shield a metre
wide, the inside soft leather, the outside polished bronze
engraved with designs I didn’t have time to examine.
All I knew: Tyson had come through. I raised the shield and
Beckendorf’s sword clanged against it. His blade shattered.
‘What?’ he shouted. ‘How –’
He didn’t have time to say more because I knocked him in
the chest with my new shield and sent him ﬂying out of his
chariot, tumbling in the dirt.
I was about to use Riptide to slash at the driver when
Annabeth yelled, ‘Percy!’
The Greek ﬁre was shooting sparks. I shoved the tip of my
sword under the leather pouch and ﬂipped it up like a
spatula. The ﬁrebomb dislodged and ﬂew into the
Hephaestus chariot at the driver’s feet. He yelped.
In a split second the driver made the right choice: he
dived out of the chariot, which careened away and exploded
in green ﬂames. The metal horses seemed to short-circuit.
They turned and dragged the burning wreckage back
towards Clarisse and the Stoll brothers, who had to swerve
to avoid it.
Annabeth pulled the reins for the last turn. I held on, sure
we would capsize, but somehow she brought us through and
spurred the horses across the ﬁnish line. The crowd roared.
Once the chariot stopped, our friends mobbed us. They
started chanting our names, but Annabeth yelled over the
noise, ‘Hold up! Listen! It wasn’t just us!’
The crowd didn’t want to be quiet, but Annabeth made
herself heard: ‘We couldn’t have done it without somebody
else! We couldn’t have won this race or got the Fleece or
saved Grover or anything! We owe our lives to Tyson,
Percy’s…’
‘Brother!’ I said, loud enough for everybody to hear.
‘Tyson, my baby brother.’
537
Tyson blushed. The crowd cheered. Annabeth planted a
kiss on my cheek. The roaring got a lot louder after that.
The entire Athena cabin lifted me and Annabeth and Tyson
onto their shoulders and carried us towards the winner’s
platform, where Chiron was waiting to bestow the laurel
wreaths.
538
20    The Fleece Works Its Magic Too Well
 
That afternoon was one of the happiest I’d ever spent at
camp, which maybe goes to show, you never know when
your world is about to be rocked to pieces.
Grover announced that he’d be able to spend the rest of
the summer with us before resuming his quest for Pan. His
bosses at the Council of Cloven Elders were so impressed
that he hadn’t got himself killed and had cleared the way for
future searchers, that they granted him a two-month
furlough and a new set of reed pipes. The only bad news:
Grover insisted on playing those pipes all afternoon long,
and his musical skills hadn’t improved much. He played
‘YMCA’, and the strawberry plants started going crazy,
wrapping around our feet like they were trying to strangle
us. I guess I couldn’t blame them.
Grover told me he could dissolve the empathy link
between us, now that we were face to face, but I told him I’d
just as soon keep it if that was okay with him. He put down
his reed pipes and stared at me. ‘But, if I get in trouble
again, you’ll be in danger, Percy! You could die!’
‘If you get in trouble again, I want to know about it. And I’ll
come help you again, G-man. I wouldn’t have it any other
way.’
In the end he agreed not to break the link. He went back
to playing ‘YMCA’ for the strawberry plants. I didn’t need an
empathy link with the plants to know how they felt about it.
Later on during archery class, Chiron pulled me aside and
told me he’d ﬁxed my problems with Meriwether Prep. The
539
school 
no 
longer 
blamed 
me 
for 
destroying 
their
gymnasium. The police were no longer looking for me.
‘How did you manage that?’ I asked.
Chiron’s eyes twinkled. ‘I merely suggested that the
mortals had seen something diﬀerent on that day – a
furnace explosion that was not your fault.’
‘You just said that and they bought it?’
‘I manipulated the Mist. Some day, when you’re ready, I’ll
show you how it’s done.’
‘You mean, I can go back to Meriwether next year?’
Chiron raised his eyebrows. ‘Oh, no, they’ve still expelled
you. Your headmaster, Mr Bonsai, said you had – how did he
put it? – un-groovy karma that disrupted the school’s
educational aura. But you’re not in any legal trouble, which
was a relief to your mother. Oh, and speaking of your
mother…’
He unclipped his cell phone from his quiver and handed it
to me. ‘It’s high time you called her.’
The worst part was the beginning – the ‘Percy-Jackson-what-
were-you-thinking-do-you-have-any-idea-how-worried-I-was-
sneaking-oﬀ-to-camp-without-permission-going-on-
dangerous-quests-and-scaring-me-half-to-death’ part.
But ﬁnally she paused to catch her breath. ‘Oh, I’m just
glad you’re safe!’
That’s the great thing about my mom. She’s no good at
staying angry. She tries, but it just isn’t in her nature.
‘I’m sorry, Mom,’ I told her. ‘I won’t scare you again.’
‘Don’t promise me that, Percy. You know very well it will
only get worse.’ She tried to sound casual about it, but I
could tell she was pretty shaken up.
I wanted to say something to make her feel better, but I
knew she was right. Being a half-blood, I would always be
doing things that scared her. And, as I got older, the dangers
would just get greater.
‘I could come home for a while,’ I oﬀered.
540
‘No, no. Stay at camp. Train. Do what you need to do. But
you will come home for the next school year?’
‘Yeah, of course. Uh, if there’s any school that will take
me.’
‘Oh, we’ll ﬁnd something, dear,’ my mother sighed. ‘Some
place where they don’t know us yet.’
As for Tyson, the campers treated him like a hero. I would’ve
been happy to have him as my cabin mate forever, but that
evening, as we were sitting on a sand dune overlooking the
Long Island Sound, he made an announcement that
completely took me by surprise.
‘Dream came from Daddy last night,’ he said. ‘He wants
me to visit.’
I wondered if he was kidding, but Tyson really didn’t know
how to kid. ‘Poseidon sent you a dream message?’
Tyson nodded. ‘Wants me to go underwater for the rest of
the summer. Learn to work at Cyclopes’ forges. He called it
an inter – an intern –’
‘An internship?’
‘Yes.’
I let that sink in. I’ll admit, I felt a little jealous. Poseidon
had never invited me underwater. But then I thought, Tyson
was going? Just like that?
‘When would you leave?’ I asked.
‘Now.’
‘Now. Like … now now?’
‘Now.’
I stared out at the waves in the Long Island Sound. The
water was glistening red in the sunset.
‘I’m happy for you, big guy,’ I managed. ‘Seriously.’
‘Hard to leave my new brother,’ he said with a tremble in
his voice. ‘But I want to make things. Weapons for the camp.
You will need them.’
Unfortunately, I knew he was right. The Fleece hadn’t
solved all the camp’s problems. Luke was still out there,
541
gathering an army aboard the Princess Andromeda. Kronos
was still re-forming in his golden coﬃn. Eventually, we
would have to ﬁght them.
‘You’ll make the best weapons ever,’ I told Tyson. I held up
my watch proudly. ‘I bet they’ll tell good time, too.’
Tyson sniﬄed. ‘Brothers help each other.’
‘You’re my brother,’ I said. ‘No doubt about it.’
He patted me on the back so hard he almost knocked me
down the sand dune. Then he wiped a tear from his cheek
and stood to go. ‘Use the shield well.’
‘I will, big guy.’
‘Save your life some day.’
The way he said it, so matter-of-fact, I wondered if that
Cyclops eye of his could see into the future.
He headed down to the beach and whistled. Rainbow, the
hippocampus, burst out of the waves. I watched the two of
them ride oﬀ together into the realm of Poseidon.
Once they were gone, I looked down at my new
wristwatch. I pressed the button and the shield spiralled out
to full size. Hammered into the bronze were pictures in
Ancient Greek style, scenes from our adventures this
summer. There was Annabeth slaying a Laistrygonian
dodgeball player, me ﬁghting the bronze bulls on Half-Blood
Hill, Tyson riding Rainbow towards the Princess Andromeda,
the CSS Birmingham blasting its cannons at Charybdis. I ran
my hand across a picture of Tyson battling the Hydra as he
held aloft a box of Monster Doughnuts.
I couldn’t help feeling sad. I knew Tyson would have an
awesome time under the ocean. But I’d miss everything
about him – his fascination with horses, the way he could ﬁx
chariots or crumple metal with his bare hands, or tie bad
guys into knots. I’d even miss him snoring like an
earthquake in the next bunk all night.
‘Hey, Percy.’
I turned.
542
Annabeth and Grover were standing at the top of the sand
dune. I guess maybe I had some sand in my eyes, because I
was blinking a lot.
‘Tyson…’ I told them. ‘He had to…’
‘We know,’ Annabeth said softly. ‘Chiron told us.’
‘Cyclopes’ forges.’ Grover shuddered. ‘I hear the cafeteria
food there is terrible! Like, no enchiladas at all.’
Annabeth held out her hand. ‘Come on, Seaweed Brain.
Time for dinner.’
We walked back towards the dining pavilion together, just
the three of us, like old times.
A storm raged that night, but it parted around Camp Half-
Blood as storms usually did. Lightning ﬂashed against the
horizon, waves pounded the shore, but not a drop fell in our
valley. We were protected again thanks to the Fleece, sealed
inside our magical borders.
Still, my dreams were restless. I heard Kronos taunting me
from the depths of Tartarus: Polyphemus sits blindly in his
cave, young hero, believing he has won a great victory. Are
you any less deluded? The titan’s cold laughter ﬁlled the
darkness.
Then my dream changed. I was following Tyson to the
bottom of the sea, into the court of Poseidon. It was a
radiant hall ﬁlled with blue light, the ﬂoor cobbled with
pearls. And there, on a throne of coral, sat my father,
dressed like a simple ﬁsherman in khaki shorts and a sun-
bleached T-shirt. I looked up into his tanned, weathered
face, his deep green eyes, and he spoke two words: Brace
yourself.
I woke with a start.
There was a banging on the door. Grover ﬂew inside
without waiting for permission. ‘Percy!’ he stammered.
‘Annabeth … on the hill … she…’
The look in his eyes told me something was terribly
wrong. Annabeth had been on guard duty that night,
543
protecting the Fleece. If something had happened –
I ripped oﬀ the covers, my blood like ice water in my
veins. I threw on some clothes while Grover tried to make a
complete sentence, but he was too stunned, too out of
breath. ‘She’s lying there … just lying there…’
I ran outside and raced across the central yard, Grover
right behind me. Dawn was just breaking, but the whole
camp 
seemed 
to 
be 
stirring. 
Word 
was 
spreading.
Something huge had happened. A few campers were
already making their way towards the hill, satyrs and
nymphs and heroes in a weird mix of armour and pyjamas.
I heard the clop of horse hooves, and Chiron galloped up
behind us, looking grim.
‘Is it true?’ he asked Grover.
Grover could only nod, his expression dazed.
I tried to ask what was going on, but Chiron grabbed me
by the arm and eﬀortlessly lifted me onto his back. Together
we thundered up Half-Blood Hill, where a small crowd had
started to gather.
I expected to see the Fleece missing from the pine tree,
but it was still there, glittering in the ﬁrst light of dawn. The
storm had broken and the sky was blood-red.
‘Curse the Titan Lord,’ Chiron said. ‘He’s tricked us again,
given himself another chance to control the prophecy.’
‘What do you mean?’ I asked.
‘The Fleece,’ he said. ‘The Fleece did its work too well.’
We galloped forward, everyone moving out of our way.
There at the base of the tree, a girl was lying unconscious.
Another girl in Greek armour was kneeling next to her.
Blood roared in my ears. I couldn’t think straight.
Annabeth had been attacked? But why was the Fleece still
there?
The tree itself looked perfectly ﬁne, whole and healthy,
suﬀused with the essence of the Golden Fleece.
‘It healed the tree,’ Chiron said, his voice ragged. ‘And
poison was not the only thing it purged.’
544
Then I realized Annabeth wasn’t the one lying on the
ground. She was the one in armour, kneeling next to the
unconscious girl. When Annabeth saw us, she ran to Chiron.
‘It … she … just suddenly there…’
Her eyes were streaming with tears, but I still didn’t
understand. I was too freaked out to make sense of it all. I
leaped oﬀ Chiron’s back and ran towards the unconscious
girl. Chiron said, ‘Percy, wait!’
I knelt by her side. She had short black hair and freckles
across her nose. She was built like a long-distance runner,
lithe and strong, and she wore clothes that were somewhere
between punk and Goth – a black T-shirt, black tattered
jeans, and a leather jacket with badges from a bunch of
bands I’d never heard of.
She wasn’t a camper. I didn’t recognize her from any of
the cabins. And yet I had the strangest feeling I’d seen her
before…
‘It’s true,’ Grover said, panting from his run up the hill. ‘I
can’t believe…’
Nobody else came close to the girl.
I put my hand on her forehead. Her skin was cold, but my
ﬁngertips tingled as if they were burning.
‘She needs nectar and ambrosia,’ I said. She was clearly a
half-blood, whether she was a camper or not. I could sense
that just from one touch. I didn’t understand why everyone
was acting so scared.
I took her by the shoulders and lifted her into a sitting
position, resting her head on my shoulder.
‘Come on!’ I yelled to the others. ‘What’s wrong with you
people? Let’s get her to the Big House.’
No one moved, not even Chiron. They were all too
stunned.
Then the girl took a shaky breath. She coughed and
opened her eyes.
Her irises were startlingly blue – electric blue.
545
The girl stared at me in bewilderment, shivering and wild-
eyed. ‘Who –’
‘I’m Percy,’ I said. ‘You’re safe now.’
‘Strangest dream…’
‘It’s okay.’
‘Dying.’
‘No,’ I assured her. ‘You’re okay. What’s your name?’
That’s when I knew. Even before she said it.
The girl’s blue eyes stared into mine, and I understood
what the Golden Fleece quest had been about. The
poisoning of the tree. Everything. Kronos had done it to
bring another chess piece into play – another chance to
control the prophecy.
Even Chiron, Annabeth and Grover, who should’ve been
celebrating this moment, were too shocked, thinking about
what it might mean for the future. And I was holding
someone who was destined to be my best friend, or possibly
my worst enemy.
‘I am Thalia,’ the girl said. ‘Daughter of Zeus.’
546
547
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
548
Contents
 
1 • My Rescue Operation Goes Very Wrong
 
2 • The Vice-principal Gets a Missile Launcher
 
3 • Bianca di Angelo Makes a Choice
 
4 • Thalia Torches New England
 
5 • I Make an Underwater Phone Call
 
6 • An Old Dead Friend Comes to Visit
 
7 • Everybody Hates Me but the Horse
 
8 • I Make a Dangerous Promise
 
9 • I Learn How to Grow Zombies
 
10 • I Break a Few Rocket Ships
 
11 • Grover Gets a Lamborghini
 
12 • I Go Snowboarding with a Pig
 
13 • We Visit the Junkyard of the Gods
 
14 • I Have a Dam Problem
 
15 • I Wrestle Santa’s Evil Twin
 
16 • We Meet the Dragon of Eternal Bad Breath
 
17 • I Put on a Few Million Extra Kilograms
 
18 • A Friend Says Goodbye
549
 
19 • The Gods Vote How to Kill Us
 
20 • I Get a New Enemy for Christmas
 
550
To Topher Bradﬁeld, a camper who made all the diﬀerence
551
1    My Rescue Operation Goes Very Wrong
 
The Friday before winter break, my mom packed me an
overnight bag and a few deadly weapons, and took me to a
new boarding school. We picked up my friends Annabeth
and Thalia on the way.
It was an eight-hour drive from New York to Bar Harbor,
Maine. Sleet and snow pounded the highway. Annabeth,
Thalia and I hadn’t seen each other in months, but between
the blizzard and the thought of what we were about to do,
we were too nervous to talk much. Except for my mom. She
talks more when she’s nervous. By the time we ﬁnally got to
Westover Hall, it was getting dark, and she’d told Annabeth
and Thalia every embarrassing baby story there was to tell
about me.
Thalia wiped the fog oﬀ the car window and peered
outside. ‘Oh, yeah. This’ll be fun.’
Westover Hall looked like an evil knight’s castle. It was all
black stone, with towers and slit windows and a big set of
wooden double doors. It stood on a snowy cliﬀ overlooking
this big frosty forest on one side and the grey churning
ocean on the other.
‘Are you sure you don’t want me to wait?’ my mother
asked.
‘No, thanks, Mom,’ I said. ‘I don’t know how long it will
take. We’ll be okay.’
‘But how will you get back? I’m worried, Percy.’
I hoped I wasn’t blushing. It was bad enough I had to
depend on my mom to drive me to my battles.
552
‘It’s okay, Ms Jackson.’ Annabeth smiled reassuringly. Her
blonde hair was tucked into a ski cap and her grey eyes
were the same colour as the ocean. ‘We’ll keep him out of
trouble.’
My mom seemed to relax a little. She thinks Annabeth is
the most level-headed demigod ever to hit eighth grade.
She’s sure Annabeth often keeps me from getting killed.
She’s right, but that doesn’t mean I have to like it.
‘All right, dears,’ my mom said. ‘Do you have everything
you need?’
‘Yes, Ms Jackson,’ Thalia said. ‘Thanks for the ride.’
‘Extra sweaters? You have my cell phone number?’
‘Mom –’
‘Your ambrosia and nectar, Percy? And a golden drachma
in case you need to contact camp?’
‘Mom, seriously! We’ll be ﬁne. Come on, guys.’
She looked a little hurt, and I was sorry about that, but I
was ready to be out of that car. If my mom told one more
story about how cute I looked in the bath when I was three
years old, I was going to burrow into the snow and freeze
myself to death.
Annabeth and Thalia followed me outside. The wind blew
straight through my coat like ice daggers.
Once my mother’s car was out of sight, Thalia said, ‘Your
mom is so cool, Percy.’
‘She’s pretty okay,’ I admitted. ‘What about you? You ever
get in touch with your mom?’
As soon as I said it, I wished I hadn’t. Thalia was great at
giving evil looks, what with the punk clothes she always
wears – the ripped-up army jacket, black leather trousers
and chain jewellery, the black eyeliner and those intense
blue eyes. But the look she gave me now was a perfect evil
‘ten’. ‘If that was any of your business, Percy –’
‘We’d better get inside,’ Annabeth interrupted. ‘Grover will
be waiting.’
553
Thalia looked at the castle and shivered. ‘You’re right. I
wonder what he found here that made him send the distress
call.’
I stared up at the dark towers of Westover Hall. ‘Nothing
good,’ I guessed.
The oak doors groaned open, and the three of us stepped
into the entry hall in a swirl of snow.
All I could say was, ‘Whoa.’
The place was huge. The walls were lined with battle ﬂags
and weapon displays: antique riﬂes, battleaxes and a bunch
of other stuﬀ. I mean, I knew Westover was a military school
and all, but the decorations seemed like overkill. Literally.
My hand went to my pocket, where I kept my lethal
ballpoint pen, Riptide. I could already sense something
wrong in this place. Something dangerous. Thalia was
rubbing her silver bracelet, her favourite magic item. I knew
we were thinking the same thing. A ﬁght was coming.
Annabeth started to say, ‘I wonder where –’
The doors slammed shut behind us.
‘Oo-kay,’ I mumbled. ‘Guess we’ll stay a while.’
I could hear music echoing from the other end of the hall.
It sounded like dance music.
We stashed our overnight bags behind a pillar and started
down the hall. We hadn’t gone very far when I heard
footsteps on the stone ﬂoor, and a man and woman
marched out of the shadows to intercept us.
They both had short grey hair and black military-style
uniforms with red trim. The woman had a wispy moustache,
and the guy was clean-shaven, which seemed kind of
backwards to me. They both walked stiﬄy, like they had
broomsticks taped to their spines.
‘Well?’ the woman demanded. ‘What are you doing here?’
‘Um…’ I realized I hadn’t planned for this. I’d been so
focused on getting to Grover and ﬁnding out what was
wrong, I hadn’t considered that someone might question
554
three kids sneaking into the school at night. We hadn’t
talked at all in the car about how we would get inside. I said,
‘Ma’am, we’re just –’
‘Ha!’ the man snapped, which made me jump. ‘Visitors are
not allowed at the dance! You shall be eee-jected!’
He had an accent – French, maybe. He pronounced his J
like in Jacques. He was tall, with a hawkish face. His nostrils
ﬂared when he spoke, which made it really hard not to stare
up his nose, and his eyes were two diﬀerent colours – one
brown, one blue – like an alley cat’s.
I ﬁgured he was about to toss us into the snow, but then
Thalia stepped forward and did something very weird.
She snapped her ﬁngers. The sound was sharp and loud.
Maybe it was just my imagination, but I felt a gust of wind
ripple out from her hand, across the room. It washed over all
of us, making the banners rustle on the walls.
‘Oh, but we’re not visitors, sir,’ Thalia said. ‘We go to
school here. You remember: I’m Thalia. And this is Annabeth
and Percy. We’re in the eighth grade.’
The male teacher narrowed his two-coloured eyes. I didn’t
know what Thalia was thinking. Now we’d probably get
punished for lying and thrown into the snow. But the man
seemed to be hesitating.
He looked at his colleague. ‘Ms Gottschalk, do you know
these students?’
Despite the danger we were in, I had to bite my tongue to
keep from laughing. A teacher named Got Chalk? He had to
be kidding.
The woman blinked, like someone had just woken her up
from a trance. ‘I… yes. I believe I do, sir.’ She frowned at us.
‘Annabeth. Thalia. Percy. What are you doing away from the
gymnasium?’
Before we could answer, I heard more footsteps, and
Grover ran up, breathless. ‘You made it! You –’
He stopped short when he saw the teachers. ‘Oh, Mrs
Gottschalk. Dr Thorn! I, uh –’
555
‘What is it, Mr Underwood?’ said the man. His tone made
it clear that he detested Grover. ‘What do you mean they
made it? These students live here.’
Grover swallowed. ‘Yes, sir. Of course, Dr Thorn. I just
meant I’m so glad they made… the punch for the dance!
The punch is great. And they made it!’
Dr Thorn glared at us. I decided one of his eyes had to be
fake. The brown one? The blue one? He looked like he
wanted to pitch us oﬀ the castle’s highest tower, but then
Mrs Gottschalk said dreamily, ‘Yes, the punch is excellent.
Now run along, all of you. You are not to leave the
gymnasium again!’
We didn’t wait to be told twice. We left with a lot of ‘Yes,
ma’ams’ and ‘Yes, sirs’ and a couple of salutes, just because
it seemed like the thing to do.
Grover hustled us down the hall in the direction of the
music.
I could feel the teachers’ eyes on my back, but I walked
closely to Thalia and asked in a low voice, ‘How did you do
that ﬁnger-snap thing?’
‘You mean the Mist? Hasn’t Chiron shown you how to do
that yet?’
An uncomfortable lump formed in my throat. Chiron was
our head trainer at camp, but he’d never shown me
anything like that. Why had he shown Thalia and not me?
Grover hurried us to a door that had gym written on the
glass. Even with my dyslexia, I could read that much.
‘That was close!’ Grover said. ‘Thank the gods you got
here!’
Annabeth and Thalia both hugged Grover. I gave him a big
high ﬁve.
It was good to see him after so many months. He’d got a
little taller and had sprouted a few more whiskers, but
otherwise he looked like he always did when he passed for
human – a red cap on his curly brown hair to hide his goat
horns, baggy jeans and trainers with fake feet to hide his
556
furry legs and hooves. He was wearing a black T-shirt that
took me a few seconds to read. It said WESTOVER HALL:
GRUNT, I wasn’t sure whether that was, like, Grover’s rank
or maybe just the school motto.
‘So what’s the emergency?’ I asked.
Grover took a deep breath. ‘I found two.’
‘Two half-bloods?’ Thalia asked, amazed. ‘Here?’
Grover nodded.
Finding one half-blood was rare enough. This year, Chiron
had put the satyrs on emergency overtime and sent them
all over the country, scouring schools from fourth grade
through high school for possible recruits. These were
desperate times. We were losing campers. We needed all
the new ﬁghters we could ﬁnd. The problem was, there just
weren’t that many demigods out there.
‘A brother and a sister,’ he said. ‘They’re ten and twelve. I
don’t know their parentage, but they’re strong. We’re
running out of time, though. I need help.’
‘Monsters?’
‘One.’ Grover looked nervous. ‘He suspects. I don’t think
he’s positive yet, but this is the last day of term. I’m sure he
won’t let them leave campus without ﬁnding out. It may be
our last chance! Every time I try to get close to them, he’s
always there, blocking me. I don’t know what to do!’
Grover looked at Thalia desperately. I tried not to feel
upset by that. Grover used to look to me for answers, but
Thalia had seniority. Not just because her dad was Zeus.
Thalia had more experience than any of us with fending oﬀ
monsters in the real world.
‘Right,’ she said. ‘These half-bloods are at the dance?’
Grover nodded.
‘Then let’s dance,’ Thalia said. ‘Who’s the monster?’
‘Oh,’ Grover said, and looked around nervously. ‘You just
met him. The vice-principal, Dr Thorn.’
557
Weird thing about military schools: the kids go absolutely
nuts when there’s a special event and they get to be out of
uniform. I guess it’s because everything’s so strict the rest
of the time, they feel like they’ve got to overcompensate or
something.
There were black and red balloons all over the gym ﬂoor,
and guys were kicking them in each other’s faces, or trying
to strangle each other with the crêpe-paper streamers taped
to the walls. Girls moved around in football huddles, the way
they always do, wearing lots of makeup and spaghetti-strap
tops and brightly coloured trousers and shoes that looked
like torture devices. Every once in a while they’d surround
some poor guy like a pack of piranhas, shrieking and
giggling, and when they ﬁnally moved on, the guy would
have ribbons in his hair and a bunch of lipstick graﬃti all
over his face. Some of the older guys looked more like me –
uncomfortable, hanging out at the edges of the gym and
trying to hide, like any minute they might have to ﬁght for
their lives. Of course, in my case, it was true…
‘There they are.’ Grover nodded towards a couple of
younger kids arguing in the bleachers. ‘Bianca and Nico di
Angelo.’
The girl wore a ﬂoppy green cap, like she was trying to
hide her face. The boy was obviously her little brother. They
both had dark silky hair and olive skin, and they used their
hands a lot as they talked. The boy was shuﬄing some kind
of trading cards. His sister seemed to be scolding him about
something. She kept looking around like she sensed
something was wrong.
Annabeth said, ‘Do they… I mean, have you told them?’
Grover shook his head. ‘You know how it is. That could put
them in more danger. Once they realize who they are, their
scent becomes stronger.’
He looked at me, and I nodded. I’d never really
understood what half-bloods ‘smell’ like to monsters and
satyrs, but I knew that your scent could get you killed. And
558
the more powerful a demigod you became, the more you
smelled like a monster’s lunch.
‘So let’s grab them and get out of here,’ I said.
I started forward, but Thalia put her hand on my shoulder.
The vice-principal, Dr Thorn, had slipped out of a doorway
near the bleachers and was standing near the di Angelo
siblings. He nodded coldly in our direction. His blue eye
seemed to glow.
Judging from his expression, I guessed Thorn hadn’t been
fooled by Thalia’s trick with the Mist after all. He suspected
who we were. He was just waiting to see why we were here.
‘Don’t look at the kids,’ Thalia ordered. ‘We have to wait
for a chance to get them. We need to pretend we’re not
interested in them. Throw him oﬀ the scent.’
‘How?’
‘We’re three powerful half-bloods. Our presence should
confuse him. Mingle. Act natural. Do some dancing. But
keep an eye on those kids.’
‘Dancing?’ Annabeth asked.
Thalia nodded. She cocked her ear to the music and made
a face. ‘Ugh. Who chose the Jesse McCartney?’
Grover looked hurt. ‘I did.’
‘Oh my gods, Grover. That is so lame. Can’t you play, like,
Green Day or something?’
‘Green who?’
‘Never mind. Let’s dance.’
‘But I can’t dance!’
‘You can if I’m leading,’ Thalia said. ‘Come on, goat boy.’
Grover yelped as Thalia grabbed his hand and led him
onto the dance ﬂoor.
Annabeth smiled.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘Nothing. It’s just cool to have Thalia back.’
Annabeth had grown taller than me since last summer,
which I found kind of disturbing. She used to wear no
jewellery except for her Camp Half-Blood bead necklace, but
559
now she wore little silver earrings shaped like owls – the
symbol of her mother, Athena. She pulled oﬀ her ski cap,
and her long blonde hair tumbled down her shoulders. It
made her look older, for some reason.
‘So…’ I tried to think of something to say. Act natural,
Thalia had told us. When you’re a half-blood on a dangerous
mission, what the heck is natural? ‘Um, design any good
buildings lately?’
Annabeth’s eyes lit up, the way they always did when she
talked about architecture. ‘Oh my gods, Percy. At my new
school, I get to take 3-D design, and there’s this cool
computer program…’
She went on to explain how she’d designed this huge
monument that she wanted to build at Ground Zero in
Manhattan. She talked about structural supports and
facades and stuﬀ, and I tried to listen. I knew she wanted to
be a super architect when she grew up – she loves maths
and historical buildings and all that – but I hardly understood
a word she was saying.
The truth was I was kind of disappointed to hear that she
liked her new school so much. It was the ﬁrst time she’d
gone to school in New York. I’d been hoping to see her more
often. It was a boarding school in Brooklyn, which she and
Thalia were both attending, close enough to Camp Half-
Blood that Chiron could help if they got into any trouble.
Because it was an all-girls school, and I was going to MS-54
in Manhattan, I hardly ever saw them.
‘Yeah, uh, cool,’ I said. ‘So you’re staying there the rest of
the year, huh?’
Her face got dark. ‘Well, maybe, if I don’t –’
‘Hey!’ Thalia called to us. She was slow dancing with
Grover, who was tripping all over himself, kicking Thalia in
the shins, and looking like he wanted to die. At least his feet
were fake. Unlike me, he had an excuse for being clumsy.
‘Dance, you guys!’ Thalia ordered. ‘You look stupid just
standing there.’
560
I looked nervously at Annabeth, then at the groups of girls
who were roaming the gym.
‘Well?’ Annabeth said.
‘Um, who should I ask?’
She punched me in the gut. ‘Me, Seaweed Brain.’
‘Oh. Oh, right.’
So we went onto the dance ﬂoor, and I looked over to see
how Thalia and Grover were doing things. I put one hand on
Annabeth’s hip, and she clasped my other hand like she was
about to judo throw me.
‘I’m not going to bite,’ she told me. ‘Honestly, Percy. Don’t
you guys have dances at your school?’
I didn’t answer. The truth was we did. But I’d never, like,
actually danced at one. I was usually one of the guys
playing basketball in the corner.
We shuﬄed around for a few minutes. I tried to
concentrate on little things, like the crêpe-paper streamers
and the punch bowl – anything but the fact that Annabeth
was taller than me, and my hands were sweaty and
probably gross, and I kept stepping on her toes.
‘What were you saying earlier?’ I asked. ‘Are you having
trouble at school or something?’
She pursed her lips. ‘It’s not that. It’s my dad.’
‘Uh-oh.’ I knew Annabeth had a rocky relationship with her
father. ‘I thought it was getting better with you two. Is it
your stepmom again?’
Annabeth sighed. ‘He decided to move. Just when I was
getting settled in New York, he took this stupid new job
researching for a World War I book. In San Francisco.’
She said this the same way she might say Fields of
Punishment or Hades’s gym shorts.
‘So he wants you to move out there with him?’ I asked.
‘To the other side of the country,’ she said miserably. ‘And
half-bloods can’t live in San Francisco. He should know that.’
‘What? Why not?’
561
Annabeth rolled her eyes. Maybe she thought I was
kidding. ‘You know. It’s right there.’
‘Oh,’ I said. I had no idea what she was talking about, but I
didn’t want to sound stupid. ‘So… you’ll go back to living at
camp or what?’
‘It’s more serious than that, Percy. I… I probably should
tell you something.’
Suddenly she froze. ‘They’re gone.’
‘What?’
I followed her gaze. The bleachers. The two half-blood
kids, Bianca and Nico, were no longer there. The door next
to the bleachers was wide open. Dr Thorn was nowhere in
sight.
‘We have to get Thalia and Grover!’ Annabeth looked
around frantically. ‘Oh, where’d they dance oﬀ to? Come
on!’
She ran through the crowd. I was about to follow when a
mob of girls got in my way. I manoeuvred round them to
avoid getting the ribbon-and-lipstick treatment, and by the
time I was free Annabeth had disappeared. I turned, looking
for her or Thalia and Grover. Instead, I saw something that
chilled my blood.
About ﬁfteen metres away, lying on the gym ﬂoor, was a
ﬂoppy green cap just like the one Bianca di Angelo had been
wearing. Near it were a few scattered trading cards. Then I
caught a glimpse of Dr Thorn. He was hurrying out a door at
the opposite end of the gym, steering the di Angelo kids by
the scruﬀs of their necks, like kittens.
I still couldn’t see Annabeth, but I knew she’d be heading
the other way, looking for Thalia and Grover.
I almost ran after her, and then I thought, Wait.
I remembered what Thalia had said to me in the entry
hall, looking at me all puzzled when I asked about the ﬁnger-
snap trick: Hasn’t Chiron shown you how to do that yet? I
thought about the way Grover had turned to her, expecting
her to save the day.
562
Not that I resented Thalia. She was cool. It wasn’t her fault
her dad was Zeus and she got all the attention… Still, I
didn’t need to run after her to solve every problem. Besides,
there wasn’t time. The di Angelos were in danger. They
might be long gone by the time I found my friends. I knew
monsters. I could handle this myself.
I took Riptide out of my pocket and ran after Dr Thorn.
The door led into a dark hallway. I heard sounds of scuﬄing
up ahead, then a painful grunt. I uncapped Riptide.
The pen grew in my hands until I held a bronze Greek
sword about a metre long with a leather-bound grip. The
blade glowed faintly, casting a golden light on the rows of
lockers.
I jogged down the corridor, but when I got to the other
end, no one was there. I opened a door and found myself
back in the main entry hall. I had gone full circle. I didn’t see
Dr Thorn anywhere, but there on the opposite side of the
room were the di Angelo kids. They stood frozen in horror,
staring right at me.
I advanced slowly, lowering the tip of my sword. ‘It’s okay.
I’m not going to hurt you.’
They didn’t answer. Their eyes were full of fear. What was
wrong with them? Where was Dr Thorn? Maybe he’d sensed
the presence of Riptide and retreated. Monsters hated
celestial bronze weapons.
‘My name’s Percy,’ I said, trying to keep my voice level.
‘I’m going to take you out of here, get you somewhere safe.’
Bianca’s eyes widened. Her ﬁsts clenched. Only too late
did I realize what her look meant. She wasn’t afraid of me.
She was trying to warn me.
I whirled round and something went WHIIISH! Pain
exploded in my shoulder. A force like a huge hand yanked
me backwards and slammed me to the wall.
I slashed with my sword but there was nothing to hit.
A cold laugh echoed through the hall.
563
‘Yes, Perseus Jackson,’ Dr Thorn said. His accent mangled
the J in my last name. ‘I know who you are.’
I tried to free my shoulder. My coat and shirt were pinned
to the wall by some kind of spike – a black daggerlike
projectile about half a metre long. It had grazed the skin of
my shoulder as it passed through my clothes, and the cut
burned. I’d felt something like this before. Poison.
I forced myself to concentrate. I would not pass out.
A dark silhouette now moved towards us. Dr Thorn
stepped into the dim light. He still looked human, but his
face was ghoulish. He had perfect white teeth and his
brown/blue eyes reﬂected the light of my sword.
‘Thank you for coming out of the gym,’ he said. ‘I hate
middle-school dances.’
I tried to swing my sword again, but he was just out of
reach.
WHIIIISH! A second projectile shot from somewhere behind
Dr Thorn. He didn’t appear to move. It was as if someone
invisible were standing behind him, throwing knives.
Next to me, Bianca yelped. The second thorn impaled
itself in the stone wall, a millimetre from her face.
‘All three of you will come with me,’ Dr Thorn said.
‘Quietly. Obediently. If you make a single noise, if you call
out for help or try to ﬁght, I will show you just how
accurately I can throw.’
564
2    The Vice-Principal Gets A Missile
Launcher
 
I didn’t know what kind of monster Dr Thorn was, but he
was fast.
Maybe I could defend myself if I could get my shield
activated. All that it would take was a touch of my
wristwatch. But defending the di Angelo kids was another
matter. I needed help, and there was only one way I could
think to get it.
I closed my eyes.
‘What are you doing, Jackson?’ hissed Dr Thorn. ‘Keep
moving!’
I opened my eyes and kept shuﬄing forward. ‘It’s my
shoulder,’ I lied, trying to sound miserable, which wasn’t
hard. ‘It burns.’
‘Bah! My poison causes pain. It will not kill you. Walk!’
Thorn herded us outside, and I tried to concentrate. I
pictured Grover’s face. I focused on my feelings of fear and
danger. Last summer, Grover had created an empathy link
between us. He’d sent me visions in my dreams to let me
know when he was in trouble. As far as I knew, we were still
linked, but I’d never tried to contact Grover before. I didn’t
even know if it would work while Grover was awake.
Hey, Grover! I thought. Thorn’s kidnapping us! He’s a
poisonous spike-throwing maniac! Help!
Thorn marched us into the woods. We took a snowy path
dimly lit by old-fashioned lamplights. My shoulder ached.
The wind blowing through my ripped clothes was so cold
that I felt like a Percysicle.
565
‘There is a clearing ahead,’ Thorn said. ‘We will summon
your ride.’
‘What ride?’ Bianca demanded. ‘Where are you taking us?’
‘Silence, you insuﬀerable girl!’
‘Don’t talk to my sister that way!’ Nico said. His voice
quavered, but I was impressed that he had the guts to say
anything at all.
Dr Thorn made a growling sound that deﬁnitely wasn’t
human. It made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up,
but I forced myself to keep walking and pretend I was being
a good little captive. Meanwhile, I projected my thoughts
like crazy – anything to get Grover’s attention: Grover!
Apples! Tin cans! Get your furry goat behind out here and
bring some heavily armed friends!
‘Halt,’ Thorn said.
The woods had opened up. We’d reached a cliﬀ
overlooking the sea. At least, I sensed the sea was down
there, about a hundred metres below. I could hear the
waves churning and I could smell the cold salty froth. But all
I could see was mist and darkness.
Dr Thorn pushed us towards the edge. I stumbled, and
Bianca caught me.
‘Thanks,’ I murmured.
‘What is he?’ she whispered. ‘How do we ﬁght him?’
‘I… I’m working on it.’
‘I’m scared,’ Nico mumbled. He was ﬁddling with
something – a little metal toy soldier of some kind.
‘Stop talking!’ Dr Thorn said. ‘Face me!’
We turned.
Thorn’s two-tone eyes glittered hungrily. He pulled
something from under his coat. At ﬁrst I thought it was a
switchblade, but it was only a phone. He pressed the side
button and said, ‘The package – it is ready to deliver.’
There was a garbled reply, and I realized Thorn was in
walkie-talkie mode. This seemed way too modern and
creepy – a monster using a cell phone.
566
I glanced behind me, wondering how far the drop was.
Dr Thorn laughed. ‘By all means, Son of Poseidon. Jump!
There is the sea. Save yourself.’
‘What did he call you?’ Bianca muttered.
‘I’ll explain later,’ I said.
‘You do have a plan, right?’
Grover! I thought desperately. Come to me!
Maybe I could get both the di Angelos to jump with me
into the ocean. If we survived the fall, I could use the water
to protect us. I’d done things like that before. If my dad was
in a good mood, and listening, he might help. Maybe.
‘I would kill you before you ever reached the water,’ Dr
Thorn said, as if reading my thoughts. ‘You do not realize
who I am, do you?’
A ﬂicker of movement behind him, and another missile
whistled so close to me that it nicked my ear. Something
had sprung up behind Dr Thorn – like a catapult, but more
ﬂexible… almost like a tail.
‘Unfortunately,’ Thorn said, ‘you are wanted alive, if
possible. Otherwise you would already be dead.’
‘Who wants us?’ Bianca demanded. ‘Because if you think
you’ll get a ransom, you’re wrong. We don’t have any family.
Nico and I…’ Her voice broke a little. ‘We’ve got no one but
each other.’
‘Aww,’ Dr Thorn said. ‘Do not worry, little brats. You will be
meeting my employer soon enough. Then you will have a
brand-new family.’
‘Luke,’ I said. ‘You work for Luke.’
Dr Thorn’s mouth twisted with distaste when I said the
name of my old enemy – a former friend who’d tried to kill
me several times. ‘You have no idea what is happening,
Perseus Jackson. I will let the General enlighten you. You are
going to do him a great service tonight. He is looking
forward to meeting you.’
‘The General?’ I asked. Then I realized I’d said it with a
French accent. ‘I mean… who’s the General?’
567
Thorn looked towards the horizon. ‘Ah, here we are. Your
transportation.’
I turned and saw a light in the distance, a searchlight over
the sea. Then I heard the chopping of helicopter blades
getting louder and closer.
‘Where are you taking us?’ Nico said.
‘You should feel honoured, my boy. You will have the
opportunity to join a great army! Just like that silly game
you play with cards and dolls.’
‘They’re not dolls! They’re ﬁgurines! And you can take
your great army and –’
‘Now, now,’ Dr Thorn warned. ‘You will change your mind
about joining us, my boy. And, if you do not, well… there are
other uses for half-bloods. We have many monstrous mouths
to feed. The Great Stirring is underway.’
‘The Great what?’ I asked. Anything to keep him talking
while I tried to ﬁgure out a plan.
‘The stirring of monsters.’ Dr Thorn smiled evilly. ‘The
worst of them, the most powerful, are now waking. Monsters
that have not been seen in thousands of years. They will
cause death and destruction the likes of which mortals have
never known. And soon we shall have the most important
monster of all – the one that shall bring about the downfall
of Olympus!’
‘Okay,’ Bianca whispered to me. ‘He’s completely nuts.’
‘We have to jump oﬀ the cliﬀ,’ I told her quietly. ‘Into the
sea.’
‘Oh, super idea. You’re completely nuts, too.’ I never got
the chance to argue with her, because just then an invisible
force slammed into me.
Looking back on it, Annabeth’s move was brilliant. Wearing
her cap of invisibility, she ploughed into the di Angelos and
me, knocking us to the ground. For a split second, Dr Thorn
was taken by surprise, so his ﬁrst volley of missiles zipped
harmlessly over our heads. This gave Thalia and Grover a
568
chance to advance from behind – Thalia wielding her magic
shield, Aegis.
If you’ve never seen Thalia run into battle, you have never
been truly frightened. She uses a huge spear that expands
from this collapsible Mace canister she carries in her pocket,
but that’s not the scary part. Her shield is modelled on one
her dad Zeus uses – also called Aegis – a gift from Athena.
The shield has the head of the gorgon Medusa moulded into
the bronze, and even though it won’t turn you to stone it’s
so horrible most people will panic and run at the sight of it.
Even Dr Thorn winced and growled when he saw it.
Thalia moved in with her spear. ‘For Zeus!’
I thought Dr Thorn was a goner. Thalia jabbed at his head,
but he snarled and swatted the spear aside. His hand
changed into an orange paw with enormous claws that
sparked against Thalia’s shield as he slashed. If it hadn’t
been for Aegis, Thalia would’ve been sliced like a loaf of
bread. As it was, she managed to roll backwards and land
on her feet.
The sound of the helicopter was getting louder behind me,
but I didn’t dare look.
Dr Thorn launched another volley of missiles at Thalia,
and this time I could see how he did it. He had a tail – a
leathery, scorpionlike tail that bristled with spikes at the tip.
The missiles deﬂected oﬀ Aegis, but the force of their
impact knocked Thalia down.
Grover sprang forward. He put his reed pipes to his lips
and began to play – a frantic jig that sounded like something
pirates would dance to. Grass broke through the snow.
Within seconds, rope-thick weeds were wrapping round Dr
Thorn’s legs, entangling him.
Dr Thorn roared and began to change. He grew larger until
he was in his true form – his face still human, but his body
that of a huge lion. His leathery, spiky tail whipped deadly
thorns in all directions.
569
‘A manticore!’ Annabeth said, now visible. Her magical
New York Yankees cap had come oﬀ when she’d ploughed
into us.
‘Who are you people?’ Bianca di Angelo demanded. ‘And
what is that?’
‘A manticore?’ Nico gasped. ‘He’s got three thousand
attack power and plus ﬁve to saving throws!’
I didn’t know what he was talking about, but I didn’t have
time to worry about it. The manticore clawed Grover’s magic
weeds to shreds then turned towards us with a snarl.
‘Get down!’ Annabeth pushed the di Angelos ﬂat into the
snow. At the last second, I remembered my own shield. I hit
my wristwatch, and metal plating spiralled out into a thick
bronze shield. Not a moment too soon. The thorns impacted
against it with such force they dented the metal. The
beautiful shield, a gift from my brother, was badly damaged.
I wasn’t sure it would even stop a second volley.
I heard a thwack and a yelp, and Grover landed next to
me with a thud.
‘Yield!’ the monster roared.
‘Never!’ Thalia yelled from across the ﬁeld. She charged
the monster and, for a second, I thought she would run him
through. But then there was a thunderous noise and a blaze
of light from behind us. The helicopter appeared out of the
mist, hovering just beyond the cliﬀs. It was a sleek black
military-style gunship, with attachments on the sides that
looked like laser-guided rockets. The helicopter had to be
manned by mortals, but what was it doing here? How could
mortals be working with a monster? The searchlights
blinded Thalia, and the manticore swatted her away with its
tail. Her shield ﬂew oﬀ into the snow. Her spear ﬂew in the
other direction.
‘No!’ I ran out to help her. I parried away a spike just
before it would’ve hit her chest. I raised my shield over us,
but I knew it wouldn’t be enough.
570
Dr Thorn laughed. ‘Now do you see how hopeless it is?
Yield, little heroes.’
We were trapped between a monster and a fully armed
helicopter. We had no chance.
Then I heard a clear, piercing sound: the call of a hunting
horn blowing in the woods.
The manticore froze. For a moment, no one moved. There
was only the swirl of snow and wind and the chopping of the
helicopter blades.
‘No,’ Dr Thorn said. ‘It cannot be –’
His sentence was cut short when something shot past me
like a streak of moonlight. A glowing silver arrow sprouted
from Dr Thorn’s shoulder.
He staggered backwards, wailing in agony.
‘Curse you!’ Thorn cried. He unleashed his spikes, dozens
of them at once, into the woods where the arrow had come
from, but just as fast, silvery arrows shot back in reply. It
almost looked like the arrows had intercepted the thorns in
mid-air and sliced them in two, but my eyes must’ve been
playing tricks on me. No one, not even Apollo’s kids at
camp, could shoot with that much accuracy.
The manticore pulled the arrow out of his shoulder with a
howl of pain. His breathing was heavy. I tried to swipe at him
with my sword, but he wasn’t as injured as he looked. He
dodged my attack and slammed his tail into my shield,
knocking me aside.
Then the archers came from the woods. They were girls,
about a dozen of them. The youngest was maybe ten. The
oldest, about fourteen, like me. They wore silvery ski parkas
and jeans, and they were all armed with bows. They
advanced on the manticore with determined expressions.
‘The Hunters!’ Annabeth cried.
Next to me, Thalia muttered, ‘Oh, wonderful.’
I didn’t have a chance to ask what she meant.
571
One of the older archers stepped forward with her bow
drawn. She was tall and graceful with coppery coloured skin.
Unlike the other girls, she had a silver circlet braided into
the top of her long dark hair, so she looked like some kind of
Persian princess. ‘Permission to kill, my lady?’
I couldn’t tell who she was talking to, because she kept
her eyes on the manticore.
The monster wailed. ‘This is not fair! Direct interference! It
is against the Ancient Laws.’
‘Not so,’ another girl said. This one was a little younger
than me, maybe twelve or thirteen. She had auburn hair
gathered back in a ponytail and strange eyes, silvery yellow
like the moon. Her face was so beautiful it made me catch
my breath, but her expression was stern and dangerous.
‘The hunting of all wild beasts is within my sphere. And you,
foul creature, are a wild beast.’ She looked at the older girl
with the circlet. ‘Zoë, permission granted.’
The manticore growled. ‘If I cannot have these alive, I
shall have them dead!’
He lunged at Thalia and me, knowing we were weak and
dazed.
‘No!’ Annabeth yelled, and she charged at the monster.
‘Get back, half-blood!’ the girl with the circlet said. ‘Get
out of the line of ﬁre!’
But Annabeth leaped onto the monster’s back and drove
her knife into his mane. The manticore howled, turning in
circles with his tail ﬂailing as Annabeth hung on for dear life.
‘Fire!’ Zoë ordered.
‘No!’ I screamed.
But the Hunters let their arrows ﬂy. The ﬁrst caught the
manticore in the neck. Another hit his chest. The manticore
staggered backwards, wailing, ‘This is not the end,
Huntress! You shall pay!’
And before anyone could react, the monster, with
Annabeth still on his back, leaped over the cliﬀ and tumbled
into the darkness.
572
‘Annabeth!’ I yelled.
I started to run after her, but our enemies weren’t done
with us. There was a snap-snap-snap from the helicopter –
the sound of gunﬁre.
Most of the Hunters scattered as tiny holes appeared in
the snow at their feet, but the girl with auburn hair just
looked up calmly at the helicopter.
‘Mortals,’ she announced, ‘are not allowed to witness my
hunt.’
She thrust out her hand, and the helicopter exploded into
dust – no, not dust. The black metal dissolved into a ﬂock of
birds – ravens, which scattered into the night.
The Hunters advanced on us.
The one called Zoë stopped short when she saw Thalia.
‘You,’ she said with distaste.
‘Zoë Nightshade.’ Thalia’s voice trembled with anger.
‘Perfect timing, as usual.’
Zoë scanned the rest of us. ‘Four half-bloods and a satyr,
my lady.’
‘Yes,’ the younger girl said. ‘Some of Chiron’s campers, I
see.’
‘Annabeth!’ I yelled. ‘You have to let us save her!’
The auburn-haired girl turned towards me. ‘I’m sorry,
Percy Jackson, but your friend is beyond help.’
I tried to struggle to my feet, but a couple of the girls held
me down.
‘You are in no condition to be hurling yourself oﬀ cliﬀs,’
the auburn-haired girl said.
‘Let me go!’ I demanded. ‘Who do you think you are?’
Zoë stepped forward as if to slap me.
‘No,’ the other girl ordered. ‘I sense no disrespect, Zoë. He
is simply distraught. He does not understand.’
The young girl looked at me, her eyes colder and brighter
than the winter moon. ‘I am Artemis,’ she said. ‘Goddess of
the Hunt.’
573
3    Bianca Di Angelo Makes A Choice
 
After seeing Dr Thorn turn into a monster and plummet oﬀ
the edge of a cliﬀ with Annabeth, you’d think nothing else
could shock me. But when this twelve-year-old girl told me
she was the goddess Artemis, I said something really
intelligent like, ‘Um… okay.’
That was nothing compared to Grover. He gasped, then
knelt hastily in the snow and started yammering, ‘Thank
you, Lady Artemis! You’re so… you’re so… Wow!’
‘Get up, goat boy!’ Thalia snapped. ‘We have other things
to worry about. Annabeth is gone!’
‘Whoa,’ Bianca di Angelo said. ‘Hold up. Time out.’
Everybody looked at her. She pointed her ﬁnger at all of
us in turn, like she was trying to connect the dots. ‘Who…
who are you people?’
Artemis’s expression softened. ‘It might be a better
question, my dear girl, to ask who are you? Who are your
parents?’
Bianca glanced nervously at her brother, who was still
staring in awe at Artemis.
‘Our parents are dead,’ Bianca said. ‘We’re orphans.
There’s a bank trust that pays for our school, but…’
She faltered. I guess she could tell from our faces that we
didn’t believe her.
‘What?’ she demanded. ‘I’m telling the truth.’
‘You are a half-blood,’ Zoë Nightshade said. Her accent
was hard to place. It seemed old-fashioned, like she was
reading from a really old book. ‘One of thy parents was
mortal. The other was an Olympian.’
574
‘An Olympian… athlete?’
‘No,’ Zoë said. ‘One of the gods.’
‘Cool!’ said Nico.
‘No!’ Bianca’s voice quavered. ‘This is not cool!’
Nico danced around like he needed to use the restroom.
‘Does Zeus really have lightning bolts that do six hundred
damage? Does he get extra movement points for –’
‘Nico, shut up!’ Bianca put her hands to her face. ‘This is
not your stupid Mythomagic game, okay? There are no
gods!’
As anxious as I felt about Annabeth – all I wanted to do
was search for her – I couldn’t help feeling sorry for the di
Angelos. I remembered what it was like for me when I ﬁrst
learned I was a demigod.
Thalia must’ve been feeling something similar, because
the anger in her eyes subsided a little bit. ‘Bianca, I know
it’s hard to believe. But the gods are still around. Trust me.
They’re immortal. And whenever they have kids with regular
humans, kids like us, well… Our lives are dangerous.’
‘Dangerous,’ Bianca said, ‘like the girl who fell.’
Thalia turned away. Even Artemis looked pained.
‘Do not despair for Annabeth,’ the goddess said. ‘She was
a brave maiden. If she can be found, I shall ﬁnd her.’
‘Then why won’t you let us go and look for her?’ I asked.
‘She is gone. Can’t you sense it, Son of Poseidon? Some
magic is at work. I do not know exactly how or why, but your
friend has vanished.’
I still wanted to jump oﬀ the cliﬀ and search for her, but I
had a feeling that Artemis was right. Annabeth was gone. If
she’d been down there in the sea, I thought, I’d be able to
feel her presence.
‘Oo!’ Nico raised his hand. ‘What about Dr Thorn? That
was awesome how you shot him with arrows! Is he dead?’
‘He was a manticore,’ Artemis said. ‘Hopefully, he is
destroyed for now, but monsters never truly die. They
575
reform over and over again, and they must be hunted
whenever they reappear.’
‘Or they’ll hunt us,’ Thalia said.
Bianca di Angelo shivered. ‘That explains… Nico, you
remember last summer, those guys who tried to attack us in
the alley in D.C.?’
‘And that bus driver,’ Nico said. ‘The one with the ram’s
horns. I told you that was real.’
‘That’s why Grover has been watching you,’ I said. ‘To
keep you safe, if you turned out to be half-bloods.’
‘Grover?’ Bianca stared at him. ‘You’re a demigod?’
‘Well, a satyr, actually.’ He kicked oﬀ his shoes and
displayed his goat hooves. I thought Bianca was going to
faint right there.
‘Grover, put your shoes back on,’ Thalia said. ‘You’re
freaking her out.’
‘Hey, my hooves are clean!’
‘Bianca,’ I said, ‘we came here to help you. You and Nico
need training to survive. Dr Thorn won’t be the last monster
you meet. You need to come to camp.’
‘Camp?’ she asked.
‘Camp Half-Blood,’ I said. ‘It’s where half-bloods learn to
survive and stuﬀ. You can join us, stay there year round if
you like.’
‘Sweet, let’s go!’ said Nico.
‘Wait.’ Bianca shook her head. ‘I don’t –’
‘There is another option,’ Zoë said.
‘No, there isn’t!’ Thalia said.
Thalia and Zoë glared at each other. I didn’t know what
they were talking about, but I could tell there was bad
history between them. For some reason, they seriously
hated each other.
‘We’ve 
burdened 
these 
children 
enough,’ 
Artemis
announced. ‘Zoë, we will rest here for a few hours. Raise the
tents. Treat the wounded. Retrieve our guests’belongings
from the school.’
576
‘Yes, my lady.’
‘And, Bianca, come with me. I would like to speak with
you.’
‘What about me?’ Nico asked.
Artemis considered the boy. ‘Perhaps you can show Grover
how to play that card game you enjoy. I’m sure Grover
would be happy to entertain you for a while… as a favour to
me?’
Grover just about tripped over himself getting up. ‘You
bet! Come on, Nico!’
Nico and Grover walked oﬀ towards the woods, talking
about hit points and armour ratings and a bunch of other
geeky stuﬀ. Artemis led a confused-looking Bianca along the
cliﬀ. The Hunters began unpacking their backpacks and
making camp.
Zoë gave Thalia one more evil look, then left to oversee
things.
As soon as she was gone, Thalia stamped her foot in
frustration. ‘The nerve of those Hunters! They think they’re
so… Argh!’
‘I’m with you,’ I said. ‘I don’t trust –’
‘Oh, you’re with me?’ Thalia turned on me furiously. ‘What
were you thinking back there in the gym, Percy? You’d take
on Dr Thorn all by yourself? You knew he was a monster!’
‘I –’
‘If we’d stuck together, we could’ve taken him without the
Hunters getting involved. Annabeth might still be here. Did
you think of that?’
My jaw clenched. I thought of some harsh things to say,
and I might’ve said them, too, but then I looked down and
saw something navy blue lying in the snow at my feet.
Annabeth’s New York Yankees baseball cap.
Thalia didn’t say another word. She wiped a tear from her
cheek, turned and marched oﬀ, leaving me alone with a
trampled cap in the snow.
577
The Hunters set up their campsite in a matter of minutes.
Seven large tents, all of silver silk, curved in a crescent
round one side of a bonﬁre. One of the girls blew a silver
dog whistle, and a dozen white wolves appeared out of the
woods. They began circling the camp like guard dogs. The
Hunters walked among them and fed them treats,
completely unafraid, but I decided I would stick close to the
tents. Falcons watched us from the trees, their eyes ﬂashing
in the ﬁrelight, and I got the feeling they were on guard
duty, too. Even the weather seemed to bend to the
goddess’s will. The air was still cold, but the wind died down
and the snow stopped falling, so it was almost pleasant
sitting by the ﬁre.
Almost… Except for the pain in my shoulder and the guilt
weighing me down. I couldn’t believe Annabeth was gone.
And, as angry as I was at Thalia, I had a sinking feeling that
she was right. It was my fault.
What had Annabeth wanted to tell me in the gym?
Something serious, she’d said. Now I might never ﬁnd out. I
thought about how we’d danced together for half a song,
and my heart felt even heavier.
I watched Thalia pacing in the snow at the edge of camp,
walking among the wolves without fear. She stopped and
looked back at Westover Hall, which was now completely
dark, looming on the hillside beyond the woods. I wondered
what she was thinking.
Seven years ago, Thalia had been turned into a pine tree
by her father, to prevent her from dying. She’d stood her
ground against an army of monsters on top of Half-Blood Hill
in order to give her friends Luke and Annabeth time to
escape. She’d only been back as a human for a few months
now, and once in a while she would stand so motionless
you’d think she was still a tree.
Finally, one of the Hunters brought me my backpack.
Grover and Nico returned from their walk, and Grover
helped me ﬁx up my wounded arm.
578
‘It’s green!’ Nico said with delight.
‘Hold still,’ Grover told me. ‘Here, eat some ambrosia
while I clean that out.’
I winced as he dressed the wound, but the ambrosia
square helped. It tasted like homemade brownie, dissolving
in my mouth and sending a warm feeling through my whole
body. Between that and the magic salve Grover used, my
shoulder felt better within a couple of minutes.
Nico rummaged through his own bag, which the Hunters
had apparently packed for him, though how they’d snuck
into Westover Hall unseen, I didn’t know. Nico laid out a
bunch of ﬁgurines in the snow – little battle replicas of Greek
gods and heroes. I recognized Zeus with a lightning bolt,
Ares with a spear, Apollo with his sun chariot.
‘Big collection,’ I said.
Nico grinned. ‘I’ve got almost all of them, plus their
holographic cards! Well, except for a few really rare ones.’
‘You’ve been playing this game a long time?’
‘Just this year. Before that…’ He knitted his eyebrows.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘I forgot. That’s weird.’
He looked unsettled, but it didn’t last long. ‘Hey, can I see
that sword you were using?’
I showed him Riptide, and explained how it turned from a
pen into a sword just by uncapping it.
‘Cool! Does it ever run out of ink?’
‘Um, well, I don’t actually write with it.’
‘Are you really the son of Poseidon?’
‘Well, yeah.’
‘Can you surf really well, then?’
I looked at Grover, who was trying hard not to laugh.
‘Jeez, Nico,’ I said. ‘I’ve never really tried.’
He went on asking questions. Did I ﬁght a lot with Thalia,
since she was a daughter of Zeus? (I didn’t answer that
one.) If Annabeth’s mother was Athena, the goddess of
wisdom, then why didn’t Annabeth know better than to fall
579
oﬀ a cliﬀ? (I tried not to strangle Nico for asking that one.)
Was Annabeth my girlfriend? (At this point, I was ready to
stick the kid in a meat-ﬂavoured sack and throw him to the
wolves.)
I ﬁgured any second he was going to ask me how many hit
points I had, and I’d lose my cool completely, but then Zoë
Nightshade came up to us.
‘Percy Jackson.’
She had dark brown eyes and a slightly upturned nose.
With her silver circlet and her proud expression, she looked
so much like royalty that I had to resist the urge to sit up
straight and say ‘Yes, ma’am.’ She studied me distastefully,
like I was a bag of dirty laundry she’d been sent to fetch.
‘Come with me,’ she said. ‘Lady Artemis wishes to speak
with thee.’
Zoë led me to the last tent, which looked no diﬀerent from
the others, and waved me inside. Bianca di Angelo was
seated next to the auburn-haired girl, who I still had trouble
thinking of as Artemis.
The inside of the tent was warm and comfortable. Silk
rugs and pillows covered the ﬂoor. In the centre, a golden
brazier of ﬁre seemed to burn without fuel or smoke. Behind
the goddess, on a polished oak display stand, was her huge
silver bow, carved to resemble gazelle horns. The walls were
hung with animal pelts – black bear, tiger and several others
I didn’t recognize. I ﬁgured an animal-rights activist
would’ve had a heart attack looking at all those rare skins,
but maybe, since Artemis was the goddess of the hunt, she
could replenish whatever she shot. I thought she had
another animal pelt lying next to her, and then I realized it
was alive – a deer with glittering fur and silver horns, its
head resting contentedly in Artemis’s lap.
‘Join us, Percy Jackson,’ the goddess said.
I sat across from her on the tent ﬂoor. The goddess
studied me, which made me uncomfortable. She had such
580
old eyes for a young girl.
‘Are you surprised by my age?’ she asked.
‘Uh… a little.’
‘I could appear as a grown woman, or a blazing ﬁre, or
anything else I want, but this is what I prefer. This is the
average age of my Hunters, and all young maidens for
whom I am patron, before they go astray.’
‘Go astray?’ I asked.
‘Grow up. Become smitten with boys. Become silly,
preoccupied, insecure. Forget themselves.’
‘Oh.’
Zoë sat down to Artemis’s right. She glared at me as if all
the stuﬀ Artemis had just said was my fault, like I’d invented
the idea of being a guy.
‘You must forgive my Hunters if they do not welcome you,’
Artemis said. ‘It is very rare that we would have boys in this
camp. Boys are usually forbidden to have any contact with
the Hunters. The last one to see this camp…’ She looked at
Zoë. ‘Which one was it?’
‘That boy in Colorado,’ Zoë said. ‘You turned him into a
jackalope.’
‘Ah, yes.’ Artemis nodded, satisﬁed. ‘I enjoy making
jackalopes. At any rate, Percy, I’ve asked you here so that
you might tell me more of the manticore. Bianca has
reported some of the… mmm, disturbing things the monster
said. But she may not have understood them. I’d like to hear
them from you.’
And so I told her.
When I was done, Artemis put her hand thoughtfully on
her silver bow. ‘I feared this was the answer.’
Zoë sat forward. ‘The scent, my lady?’
‘Yes.’
‘What scent?’ I asked.
‘Things are stirring that I have not hunted in millennia,’
Artemis murmured. ‘Prey so old I have nearly forgotten.’
581
She stared at me intently. ‘We came here tonight sensing
the manticore, but he was not the one I seek. Tell me again,
exactly what Dr Thorn said.’
‘Um, “I hate middle school dances.”’
‘No, no. After that.’
‘He said somebody called the General was going to
explain things to me.’
Zoë’s face paled. She turned to Artemis and started to say
something, but Artemis raised her hand.
‘Go on, Percy,’ the goddess said.
‘Well, then Thorn was talking about the Great Stir Pot –’
‘Stirring,’ Bianca corrected.
‘Yeah. And he said, “Soon we shall have the most
important monster of all – the one that shall bring about the
downfall of Olympus.”’
The goddess was so still she could’ve been a statue.
‘Maybe he was lying,’ I said.
Artemis shook her head. ‘No. He was not. I’ve been too
slow to see the signs. I must hunt this monster.’
Zoë looked like she was trying very hard not to be afraid,
but she nodded. ‘We will leave right away, my lady.’
‘No, Zoë. I must do this alone.’
‘But, Artemis –’
‘This task is too dangerous even for the Hunters. You know
where I must start my search. You cannot go there with me.’
‘As… as you wish, my lady.’
‘I will ﬁnd this creature,’ Artemis vowed. ‘And I shall bring
it back to Olympus by winter solstice. It will be all the proof I
need to convince the Council of the Gods of how much
danger we are in.’
‘You know what the monster is?’ I asked.
Artemis gripped her bow. ‘Let us pray I am wrong.’
‘Can goddesses pray?’ I asked, because I’d never really
thought about that.
A ﬂicker of a smile played across Artemis’s lips. ‘Before I
go, Percy Jackson, I have a small task for you.’
582
‘Does it involve getting turned into a jackalope?’
‘Sadly, no. I want you to escort the Hunters back to Camp
Half-Blood. They can stay there in safety until I return.’
‘What?’ Zoë blurted out. ‘But, Artemis, we hate that place.
The last time we stayed there –’
‘Yes, I know,’ Artemis said. ‘But I’m sure Dionysus will not
hold a grudge just because of a little, ah, misunderstanding.
It’s your right to use Cabin Eight whenever you are in need.
Besides, I hear they rebuilt the cabins you burned down.’
Zoë muttered something about foolish campers.
‘And now there is one last decision to make.’ Artemis
turned to Bianca. ‘Have you made up your mind, my girl?’
Bianca hesitated. ‘I’m still thinking about it.’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘Thinking about what?’
‘They… they’ve invited me to join the Hunt.’
‘What? But you can’t! You have to come to Camp Half-
Blood so Chiron can train you. It’s the only way you can
learn to survive.’
‘It is not the only way for a girl,’ Zoë said.
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this. ‘Bianca, camp is cool!
It’s got a pegasus stable and a sword-ﬁghting arena and… I
mean, what do you get by joining the Hunters?’
‘To begin with,’ Zoë said, ‘immortality.’
I stared at her, then at Artemis. ‘She’s kidding, right?’
‘Zoë rarely kids about anything,’ Artemis said. ‘My
Hunters follow me on my adventures. They are my
maidservants, my companions, my sisters-in-arms. Once
they swear loyalty to me, they are indeed immortal… unless
they fall in battle, which is unlikely. Or break their oath.’
‘What oath?’ I said.
‘To forswear romantic love forever,’ Artemis said. ‘To never
grow up, never get married. To be a maiden eternally.’
‘Like you?’
The goddess nodded.
I tried to imagine what she was saying. Being immortal.
Hanging out with only middle-school girls forever. I couldn’t
583
get my mind round it. ‘So you just go around the country
recruiting half-bloods –’
‘Not just half-bloods,’ Zoë interrupted. ‘Lady Artemis does
not discriminate by birth. All who honour the goddess may
join. Half-bloods, nymphs, mortals –’
‘Which are you, then?’
Anger ﬂashed in Zoë’s eyes. ‘That is not thy concern, boy.
The point is Bianca may join if she wishes. It is her choice.’
‘Bianca, this is crazy,’ I said. ‘What about your brother?
Nico can’t be a Hunter.’
‘Certainly not,’ Artemis agreed. ‘He will go to camp.
Unfortunately, that’s the best boys can do.’
‘Hey!’ I protested.
‘You can see him from time to time,’ Artemis assured
Bianca. ‘But you will be free of responsibility. He will have
the camp counsellors to take care of him. And you will have
a new family. Us.’
‘A new family,’ Bianca repeated dreamily. ‘Free of
responsibility.’
‘Bianca, you can’t do this,’ I said. ‘It’s nuts.’
She looked at Zoë. ‘Is it worth it?’
Zoë nodded. ‘It is.’
‘What do I have to do?’
‘Say this,’ Zoë told her, ‘ “I pledge myself to the goddess
Artemis.”’
‘I… I pledge myself to the goddess Artemis.’
‘ “I turn my back on the company of men, accept eternal
maidenhood and join the Hunt.” ’
Bianca repeated the lines. ‘That’s it?’
Zoë nodded. ‘If Lady Artemis accepts thy pledge, then it is
binding.’
‘I accept it,’ Artemis said.
The ﬂames in the brazier brightened, casting a silver glow
over the room. Bianca looked no diﬀerent, but she took a
deep breath and opened her eyes wide. ‘I feel… stronger.’
‘Welcome, sister,’ Zoë said.
584
‘Remember your pledge,’ Artemis said. ‘It is now your life.’
I couldn’t speak. I felt like a trespasser. And a complete
failure. I couldn’t believe I’d come all this way and suﬀered
so much only to lose Bianca to some eternal girls’ club.
‘Do not despair, Percy Jackson,’ Artemis said. ‘You will still
get to show the di Angelos your camp. And if Nico so
chooses, he can stay there.’
‘Great,’ I said, trying not to sound surly. ‘How are we
supposed to get there?’
Artemis closed her eyes. ‘Dawn is approaching. Zoë, break
camp. You must get to Long Island quickly and safely. I shall
summon a ride from my brother.’
Zoë didn’t look very happy about this idea, but she
nodded and told Bianca to follow her. As she was leaving,
Bianca paused in front of me. ‘I’m sorry, Percy. But I want
this. I really, really do.’
Then she was gone, and I was left alone with the twelve-
year-old goddess.
‘So,’ I said glumly. ‘We’re going to get a ride from your
brother, huh?’
Artemis’s silver eyes gleamed. ‘Yes, boy. You see, Bianca
di Angelo is not the only one with an annoying brother. It’s
time for you to meet my irresponsible twin, Apollo.’
585
4    Thalia Torches New England
 
Artemis assured us that dawn was coming, but you could’ve
fooled me. It was colder and darker and snowier than ever.
Up on the hill, Westover Hall’s windows were completely
lightless. I wondered if the teachers had even noticed the di
Angelos and Dr Thorn were missing yet. I didn’t want to be
around when they did. With my luck, the only name Mrs
Gottschalk would remember would be ‘Percy Jackson’, and
then I’d be the subject of a nationwide manhunt… again.
The Hunters broke camp as quickly as they’d set it up. I
stood shivering in the snow (unlike the Hunters, who didn’t
seem to feel at all uncomfortable), and Artemis stared into
the east like she was expecting something. Bianca sat oﬀ to
one side, talking with Nico. I could tell from his gloomy face
that she was explaining her decision to join the Hunt. I
couldn’t help thinking how selﬁsh it was of her, abandoning
her brother like that.
Thalia and Grover came up and huddled around me,
anxious to hear what had happened during my audience
with the goddess.
When I told them, Grover turned pale. ‘The last time the
Hunters visited camp, it didn’t go well.’
‘How’d they even show up here?’ I wondered. ‘I mean,
they just appeared out of nowhere.’
‘And Bianca joined them,’ Thalia said, disgusted. ‘It’s all
Zoë’s fault. That stuck-up, no good –’
‘Who can blame her?’ Grover said. ‘Eternity with Artemis?’
He heaved a big sigh.
586
Thalia rolled her eyes. ‘You satyrs. You’re all in love with
Artemis. Don’t you get that she’ll never love you back?’
‘But she’s so… into nature,’ Grover swooned.
‘You’re nuts,’ said Thalia.
‘Nuts and berries,’ Grover said dreamily. ‘Yeah.’
Finally the sky began to lighten. Artemis muttered, ‘About
time. He’s so-o-o lazy during the winter.’
‘You’re, um, waiting for sunrise?’ I asked.
‘For my brother. Yes.’
I didn’t want to be rude. I mean, I knew the legends about
Apollo – or sometimes Helios – driving a big sun chariot
across the sky. But I also knew that the sun was really a star
about a zillion miles away. I’d got used to some of the Greek
myths being true, but still… I didn’t see how Apollo could
drive the sun.
‘It’s not exactly as you think,’ Artemis said, like she was
reading my mind.
‘Oh, okay.’ I started to relax. ‘So, it’s not like he’ll be
pulling up in a –’
There was a sudden burst of light on the horizon. A blast
of warmth.
‘Don’t look,’ Artemis advised. ‘Not until he parks.’
Parks?
I averted my eyes, and saw that the other kids were doing
the same. The light and warmth intensiﬁed until my winter
coat felt like it was melting oﬀ me. Then suddenly the light
died.
I looked. And I couldn’t believe it. It was my car. Well, the
car I wanted, anyway. A red convertible Maserati Spyder. It
was so awesome it glowed. Then I realized it was glowing
because the metal was hot. The snow had melted round the
Maserati in a perfect circle, which explained why I was now
standing on green grass and my shoes were wet.
The driver got out, smiling. He looked about seventeen or
eighteen, and, for a second, I had the uneasy feeling it was
587
Luke, my old enemy. This guy had the same sandy hair and
outdoorsy good looks. But it wasn’t Luke. This guy was
taller, with no scar on his face like Luke’s. His smile was
brighter and more playful. (Luke didn’t do much more than
scowl and sneer these days.) The Maserati driver wore jeans
and loafers and a sleeveless T-shirt.
‘Wow,’ Thalia muttered. ‘Apollo is hot.’
‘He’s the sun god,’ I said.
‘That’s not what I meant.’
‘Little sister!’ Apollo called. If his teeth were any whiter he
could’ve blinded us without the sun car. ‘What’s up? You
never call. You never write. I was getting worried!’
Artemis sighed. ‘I’m ﬁne, Apollo. And I am not your little
sister.’
‘Hey, I was born ﬁrst.’
‘We’re twins! How many millennia do we have to argue –’
‘So what’s up?’ he interrupted. ‘Got the girls with you, I
see. You all need some tips on archery?’
Artemis gritted her teeth. ‘I need a favour. I have some
hunting to do, alone. I need you to take my companions to
Camp Half-Blood.’
‘Sure, sis!’ Then he raised his hands in a stop everything
gesture. ‘I feel a haiku coming on.’
The Hunters all groaned. Apparently they’d met Apollo
before.
He cleared his throat and held up one hand dramatically.
 
‘Green grass breaks through snow.
Artemis pleads for my help.
I am so cool.’
 
 
He grinned at us, waiting for applause.
‘That last line was only four syllables,’ Artemis said.
Apollo frowned. ‘Was it?’
588
‘Yes. What about I am so big-headed?’
‘No, no, that’s six syllables. Hmm.’ He started muttering
to himself.
Zoë Nightshade turned to us. ‘Lord Apollo has been going
through this haiku phase ever since he visited Japan.’ Tis not
as bad as the time he visited Limerick. If I’d had to hear one
more poem that started with, There once was a goddess
from Sparta –’
‘I’ve got it!’ Apollo announced. ‘I am so awesome. That’s
ﬁve syllables!’ He bowed, looking very pleased with himself.
‘And now, sis. Transportation for the Hunters, you say? Good
timing. I was just about ready to roll.’
‘These demigods will also need a ride,’ Artemis said,
pointing to us. ‘Some of Chiron’s campers.’
‘No problem!’ Apollo checked us out. ‘Let’s see… Thalia,
right? I’ve heard all about you.’
Thalia blushed. ‘Hi, Lord Apollo.’
‘Zeus’s girl, yes? Makes you my half-sister. Used to be a
tree, didn’t you? Glad you’re back. I hate it when pretty girls
turn into trees. Man, I remember one time –’
‘Brother,’ Artemis said. ‘You should get going.’
‘Oh, right.’ Then he looked at me, and his eyes narrowed.
‘Percy Jackson?’
‘Yeah. I mean… yes, sir.’
It seemed weird calling a teenager ‘sir’, but I’d learned to
be careful with immortals. They tended to get oﬀended
easily. Then they blew stuﬀ up.
Apollo studied me, but he didn’t say anything, which I
found a little creepy.
‘Well!’ he said at last. ‘We’d better load up, huh? Ride only
goes one way – west. And if you miss it, you miss it.’
I looked at the Maserati, which would seat two people
max. There were about twenty of us.
‘Cool car,’ Nico said.
‘Thanks, kid,’ Apollo said.
‘But how will we all ﬁt?’
589
‘Oh.’ Apollo seemed to notice the problem for the ﬁrst
time. ‘Well, yeah. I hate to change out of sports-car mode,
but I suppose…’
He took out his car keys and beeped the security alarm
button. Chirp, chirp.
For a moment, the car glowed brightly again. When the
glare died, the Maserati had been replaced by one of those
small buses just like we used for school basketball games.
‘Right,’ he said. ‘Everybody in.’
Zoë ordered the Hunters to start loading. She picked up
her camping pack, and Apollo said, ‘Here, sweetheart. Let
me get that.’
Zoë recoiled. Her eyes ﬂashed murderously.
‘Brother,’ Artemis chided. ‘You do not help my Hunters.
You do not look at, talk to, or ﬂirt with my Hunters. And you
do not call them sweetheart.’
Apollo spread his hands. ‘Sorry. I forgot. Hey, sis, where
are you oﬀ to, anyway?’
‘Hunting,’ Artemis said. ‘It’s none of your business.’
‘I’ll ﬁnd out. I see all. Know all.’
Artemis snorted. ‘Just drop them oﬀ, Apollo. And no
messing around!’
‘No, no! I never mess around.’
Artemis rolled her eyes, then looked at us. ‘I will see you
by winter solstice. Zoë, you are in charge of the Hunters. Do
well. Do as I would do.’
Zoë straightened. ‘Yes, my lady.’
Artemis knelt and touched the ground as if looking for
tracks. When she rose, she looked troubled. ‘So much
danger. The beast must be found.’
She sprinted towards the woods and melted into the snow
and shadows.
Apollo turned and grinned, jangling the car keys on his
ﬁnger. ‘So,’ he said. ‘Who wants to drive?’
590
The Hunters piled into the van. They all crammed into the
back so they’d be as far away as possible from Apollo and
the rest of us highly infectious males. Bianca sat with them,
leaving her little brother to hang in the front with us, which
seemed cold to me, but Nico didn’t seem to mind.
‘This is so cool!’ Nico said, jumping up and down in the
driver’s seat. ‘Is this really the sun? I thought Helios and
Selene were the sun and moon gods. How come sometimes
it’s them and sometimes it’s you and Artemis?’
‘Downsizing,’ Apollo said. ‘The Romans started it. They
couldn’t aﬀord all those temple sacriﬁces, so they laid oﬀ
Helios and Selene and folded their duties into our job
descriptions. My sis got the moon. I got the sun. It was
pretty annoying at ﬁrst, but at least I got this cool car.’
‘But how does it work?’ Nico asked. ‘I thought the sun was
a big ﬁery ball of gas!’
Apollo chuckled and ruﬄed Nico’s hair. ‘That rumour
probably got started because Artemis used to call me a big
ﬁery ball of gas. Seriously, kid, it depends on whether you’re
talking 
astronomy 
or 
philosophy. 
You 
want 
to 
talk
astronomy? Bah, what fun is that? You want to talk about
how humans think about the sun? Ah, now that’s more
interesting. They’ve got a lot riding on the sun… er, so to
speak. It keeps them warm, grows their crops, powers
engines, makes everything look, well, sunnier. This chariot is
built out of human dreams about the sun, kid. It’s as old as
Western Civilization. Every day, it drives across the sky from
east to west, lighting up all those puny little mortal lives.
The chariot is a manifestation of the sun’s power, the way
mortals perceive it. Make sense?’
Nico shook his head. ‘No.’
‘Well then, just think of it as a really powerful, really
dangerous solar car.’
‘Can I drive?’
‘No. Too young.’
‘Oo! Oo!’ Grover raised his hand.
591
‘Mm, no,’ Apollo said. ‘Too furry.’ He looked past me and
focused on Thalia.
‘Daughter of Zeus!’ he said. ‘Lord of the sky. Perfect.’
‘Oh, no.’ Thalia shook her head. ‘No, thanks.’
‘C’mon,’ Apollo said. ‘How old are you?’
Thalia hesitated. ‘I don’t know.’
It was sad, but true. She’d been turned into a tree when
she was twelve, but that had been seven years ago. So she
should be nineteen, if you went by years. But she still felt
like she was twelve. If you looked at her, though, she
seemed somewhere in between. The best Chiron could work
out, she had kept aging while in tree form, but much more
slowly.
Apollo tapped his ﬁnger to his lips. ‘You’re ﬁfteen, almost
sixteen.’
‘How do you know that?’
‘Hey, I’m the god of prophecy. I know stuﬀ. You’ll turn
sixteen in about a week.’
‘That’s my birthday! December twenty-second.’
‘Which means you’re old enough now to drive with a
learner’s permit!’
Thalia shifted her feet nervously. ‘Uh –’
‘I know what you’re going to say,’ Apollo said. ‘You don’t
deserve an honour like driving the sun chariot.’
‘That’s not what I was going to say.’
‘Don’t sweat it! Maine to Long Island is a really short trip,
and don’t worry about what happened to the last kid I
trained. You’re Zeus’s daughter. He’s not going to blast you
out of the sky.’
Apollo laughed good-naturedly. The rest of us didn’t join
him.
Thalia tried to protest, but Apollo was absolutely not going
to take ‘no’ for an answer. He hit a button on the dashboard,
and a sign popped up along the top of the windscreen. I had
to read it backwards (which, for a dyslexic really isn’t that
592
diﬀerent to reading forward). I was pretty sure it said
WARNING: STUDENT DRIVER.
‘Take it away!’ Apollo told Thalia. ‘You’re gonna be a
natural!’
I’ll admit I was jealous. I couldn’t wait to start driving. A
couple of times that autumn, my mom had taken me out to
Montauk when the beach road was empty, and she’d let me
try out her Mazda. I mean, yeah, that was a Japanese
compact, and this was the sun chariot, but how diﬀerent
could it be?
‘Speed equals heat,’ Apollo advised. ‘So start slowly, and
make sure you’ve got good altitude before you really open
her up.’
Thalia gripped the wheel so tightly her knuckles turned
white. She looked like she was going to be sick.
‘What’s wrong?’ I asked her.
‘Nothing,’ she said shakily. ‘N-nothing is wrong.’
She pulled back on the wheel. It tilted and the bus lurched
upwards so fast I fell back and crashed against something
soft.
‘Ow,’ Grover said.
‘Sorry.’
‘Slower!’ Apollo said.
‘Sorry!’ Thalia said. ‘I’ve got it under control!’
I managed to get to my feet. Looking out of the window, I
saw a smoking ring of trees from the clearing where we’d
taken oﬀ.
‘Thalia,’ I said, ‘lighten up on the accelerator.’
‘I’ve got it, Percy,’ she said, gritting her teeth. But she
kept it ﬂoored.
‘Loosen up,’ I told her.
‘I’m loose!’ Thalia said. She was so stiﬀ she looked like
she was made out of plywood.
‘We need to veer south for Long Island,’ Apollo said. ‘Hang
a left.’
593
Thalia jerked the wheel and again threw me into Grover,
who yelped.
‘The other left,’ Apollo suggested.
I made the mistake of looking out of the window again. We
were at aeroplane height now – so high the sky was starting
to look black.
‘Ah…’ Apollo said, and I got the feeling he was forcing
himself to sound calm. ‘A little lower, sweetheart. Cape Cod
is freezing over.’
Thalia tilted the wheel. Her face was chalk white, her
forehead beaded with sweat. Something was deﬁnitely
wrong. I’d never seen her like this.
The bus pitched down and somebody screamed. Maybe it
was me. Now we were heading straight towards the Atlantic
Ocean at a thousand miles an hour, the New England
coastline oﬀ to our left. And it was getting hot in the bus.
Apollo had been thrown somewhere in the back of the
bus, but he started climbing up the rows of seats.
‘Take the wheel!’ Grover begged him.
‘No worries,’ Apollo said. He looked plenty worried. ‘She
just has to learn to – WHOA!’
I saw what he was seeing. Down below us was a little
snow-covered New England town. At least, it used to be
snow-covered. As I watched, the snow melted oﬀ the trees
and the roofs and the lawns. The white steeple on a church
turned brown and started to smolder. Little plumes of
smoke, like birthday candles, were popping up all over the
town. Trees and rooftops were catching ﬁre.
‘Pull up!’ I yelled.
There was a wild light in Thalia’s eyes. She yanked back
on the wheel, and I held on this time. As we zoomed up, I
could see through the back window that the ﬁres in the town
were being snuﬀed out by the sudden blast of cold.
‘There!’ Apollo pointed. ‘Long Island, dead ahead. Let’s
slow down, dear. ‘Dead’ is only an expression.’
594
Thalia was thundering towards the coastline of northern
Long Island. There was Camp Half-Blood: the valley, the
woods, the beach. I could see the dining pavilion and cabins
and the amphitheatre.
‘I’m under control,’ Thalia muttered. ‘I’m under control.’
We were only a few hundred metres away now.
‘Brake,’ Apollo said.
‘I can do this.’
‘BRAKE!’
Thalia slammed her foot on the brake, and the sun bus
pitched forward at a forty-ﬁve-degree angle, slamming into
the Camp Half-Blood canoe lake with a huge FLOOOOOOSH!
Steam billowed up, sending several frightened naiads
scrambling out of the water with half-woven wicker baskets.
The bus bobbed to the surface along with a couple of
capsized, half-melted canoes.
‘Well,’ said Apollo with a brave smile. ‘You were right, my
dear. You had everything under control! Let’s go see if we
boiled anyone important, shall we?’
595
5    I Make An Underwater Phone Call
 
I’d never seen Camp Half-Blood in winter before, and the
snow surprised me.
See, the camp has the ultimate magic climate control.
Nothing gets inside the borders unless the director, Mr D,
wants it to. I thought it would be warm and sunny, but
instead the snow had been allowed to fall lightly. Frost
covered the chariot track and the strawberry ﬁelds. The
cabins were decorated with tiny ﬂickering lights, like
Christmas lights, except they seemed to be balls of real ﬁre.
More lights glowed in the woods, and, weirdest of all, a ﬁre
ﬂickered in the attic window of the Big House, where the
Oracle dwelt, imprisoned in an old mummiﬁed body. I
wondered if the spirit of Delphi was roasting marshmallows
up there or something.
‘Whoa,’ Nico said as he climbed oﬀ the bus. ‘Is that a
climbing wall?’
‘Yeah,’ I said.
‘Why is there lava pouring down it?’
‘Little extra challenge. Come on. I’ll introduce you to
Chiron. Zoë, have you met –’
‘I know Chiron,’ Zoë said stiﬄy. ‘Tell him we will be in
Cabin Eight. Hunters, follow me.’
‘I’ll show you the way,’ Grover oﬀered.
‘We know the way.’
‘Oh, really, it’s no trouble. It’s easy to get lost here, if you
don’t –’ he tripped over a canoe and came up still talking –
‘like my old daddy goat used to say! Come on!’
596
Zoë rolled her eyes, but I guess she ﬁgured there was no
getting rid of Grover. The Hunters shouldered their packs
and their bows and headed oﬀ towards the cabins. As
Bianca di Angelo was leaving, she leaned over and
whispered something in her brother’s ear. She looked at him
for an answer, but Nico just scowled and turned away.
‘Take care, sweethearts!’ Apollo called after the Hunters.
He winked at me. ‘Watch out for those prophecies, Percy. I’ll
see you soon.’
‘What do you mean?’
Instead of answering, he hopped back in the bus. ‘Later,
Thalia,’ he called. ‘And, uh, be good!’
He gave her a wicked smile, as if he knew something she
didn’t. Then he closed the doors and revved the engine. I
turned aside as the sun chariot took oﬀ in a blast of heat.
When I looked back, the lake was steaming. A red Maserati
soared over the woods, glowing brighter and climbing
higher until it disappeared in a ray of sunlight.
Nico was still looking grumpy. I wondered what his sister
had told him.
‘Who’s Chiron?’ he asked. ‘I don’t have his ﬁgurine.’
‘Our activities director,’ I said. ‘He’s… well, you’ll see.’
‘If those Hunter girls don’t like him,’ Nico grumbled, ‘that’s
good enough for me. Let’s go.’
The second thing that surprised me about camp was how
empty it was. I mean, I knew most half-bloods only trained
during the summer. Just the year-rounders would be here –
the ones who didn’t have homes to go to, or would get
attacked by monsters too much if they left. But there didn’t
even seem to be many of them, either.
I spotted Charles Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin
stoking the forge outside the camp armoury. The Stoll
brothers, Travis and Connor, from the Hermes cabin, were
picking the lock on the camp store. A few kids from the Ares
cabin were having a snowball ﬁght with the wood nymphs at
597
the edge of the forest. That was about it. Even my old rival
from the Ares cabin, Clarisse, didn’t seem to be around.
The Big House was decorated with strings of red and
yellow ﬁreballs that warmed the porch but didn’t seem to
set anything alight. Inside, ﬂames crackled in the hearth.
The air smelled like hot chocolate. Mr D, the camp director,
and Chiron were playing a quiet game of cards in the
parlour.
Chiron’s brown beard was shaggier for the winter. His
curly hair had grown a little longer. He wasn’t posing as a
teacher this year, so I guess he could aﬀord to be casual. He
wore a fuzzy sweater with a hoof-print design on it, and he
had a blanket on his lap that almost hid his wheelchair
completely.
He smiled when he saw us. ‘Percy! Thalia! Ah, and this
must be –’
‘Nico di Angelo,’ I said. ‘He and his sister are half-bloods.’
Chiron breathed a sigh of relief. ‘You succeeded, then.’
‘Well…’
His smile melted. ‘What’s wrong? And where is Annabeth?’
‘Oh, dear,’ Mr D said in a bored voice. ‘Not another one
lost.’
I’d been trying not to pay attention to Mr D, but he was
kind of hard to ignore in his neon-orange leopard-skin warm-
up suit and his purple running shoes. (Like Mr D had ever
run a day in his immortal life.) A golden laurel wreath was
tilted sideways on his curly black hair, which must’ve meant
he’d won the last hand of cards.
‘What do you mean?’ Thalia asked. ‘Who else is lost?’
Just then, Grover trotted into the room, grinning like crazy.
He had a black eye and red lines on his face that looked like
a slap mark. ‘The Hunters are all moved in!’
Chiron frowned. ‘The Hunters, eh? I see we have much to
talk about.’ He glanced at Nico. ‘Grover, perhaps you should
take our young friend to the den and show him our
orientation ﬁlm.’
598
‘But… Oh, right. Yes, sir.’
‘Orientation ﬁlm?’ Nico asked. ‘Is it G or PG?’ Cause
Bianca is kinda strict –’
‘It’s PG-13,’ Grover said.
‘Cool!’ Nico happily followed him out of the room.
‘Now,’ Chiron said to Thalia and me, ‘perhaps you two
should sit down and tell us the whole story.’
When we were done, Chiron turned to Mr D. ‘We should
launch a search for Annabeth immediately.’
‘I’ll go,’ Thalia and I said at the same time.
Mr D sniﬀed. ‘Certainly not!’
Thalia and I both started complaining, but Mr D held up
his hand. He had that purplish angry ﬁre in his eyes that
usually meant something bad and godly was going to
happen if we didn’t shut up.
‘From what you have told me,’ Mr D said, ‘we have broken
even on this escapade. We have, ah, regrettably lost Annie
Bell –’
‘Annabeth,’ I snapped. She’d gone to camp since she was
seven, and still Mr D pretended not to know her name.
‘Yes, yes,’ he said. ‘And you procured a small annoying
boy to replace her. So I see no point risking further half-
bloods on a ridiculous rescue. The possibility is very great
that this Annie girl is dead.’
I wanted to strangle Mr D. It wasn’t fair Zeus had sent him
here to dry out as camp director for a hundred years. It was
meant to be a punishment for Mr D’s bad behavior on
Olympus, but it ended up being a punishment for all of us.
‘Annabeth may be alive,’ Chiron said, but I could tell he
was having trouble sounding upbeat. He’d practically raised
Annabeth all those years she was a year-round camper,
before she’d given living with her dad and stepmom a
second try. ‘She’s very bright. If… if our enemies have her,
she will try to play for time. She may even pretend to
cooperate.’
599
‘That’s right,’ Thalia said. ‘Luke would want her alive.’
‘In which case,’ said Mr D, ‘I’m afraid she will have to be
smart enough to escape on her own.’
I got up from the table.
‘Percy.’ Chiron’s tone was full of warning. In the back of
my mind, I knew Mr D was not somebody to mess with. Even
if you were an impulsive ADHD kid like me, he wouldn’t give
you any slack. But I was so angry I didn’t care.
‘You’re glad to lose another camper,’ I said. ‘You’d like it if
we all disappeared!’
Mr D stiﬂed a yawn. ‘You have a point?’
‘Yeah,’ I growled. ‘Just because you were sent here as a
punishment doesn’t mean you have to be a lazy jerk! This is
your civilization, too. Maybe you could try helping out a
little!’
For a second, there was no sound except the crackle of
the ﬁre. The light reﬂected in Mr D’s eyes, giving him a
sinister look. He opened his mouth to say something –
probably a curse that would blast me to smithereens – when
Nico burst into the room, followed by Grover.
‘SO COOL!’ Nico yelled, holding his hands out to Chiron.
‘You’re… you’re a centaur!’
Chiron managed a nervous smile. ‘Yes, Mr di Angelo, if you
please. Though, I prefer to stay in human form in this
wheelchair for, ah, ﬁrst encounters.’
‘And, whoa!’ He looked at Mr D. ‘You’re the wine dude? No
way!’
Mr D turned his eyes away from me and gave Nico a look
of loathing. ‘The wine dude?’
‘Dionysus, right? Oh, wow! I’ve got your ﬁgurine.’
‘My ﬁgurine.’
‘In my game, Mythomagic. And a holofoil card, too! And
even though you’ve only got like ﬁve hundred attack points
and everybody thinks you’re the lamest god card, I totally
think your powers are sweet!’
600
‘Ah.’ Mr D seemed truly perplexed, which probably saved
my life. ‘Well, that’s… gratifying.’
‘Percy,’ Chiron said quickly, ‘you and Thalia go down to
the cabins. Inform the campers we’ll be playing capture
the ﬂag tomorrow evening.’
‘Capture the ﬂag?’ I asked. ‘But we don’t have enough –’
‘It is a tradition,’ Chiron said. ‘A friendly match, whenever
the Hunters visit.’
‘Yeah,’ Thalia muttered. ‘I bet it’s real friendly.’
Chiron jerked his head towards Mr D, who was still
frowning as Nico talked about how many defence points all
the gods had in his game. ‘Run along now,’ Chiron told us.
‘Oh, right,’ Thalia said. ‘Come on, Percy.’
She hauled me out of the Big House before Dionysus could
remember that he wanted to kill me.
 
‘You’ve already got Ares on your bad side,’ Thalia reminded
me as we trudged towards the cabins. ‘You need another
immortal enemy?’
She was right. My ﬁrst summer as a camper, I’d got in a
ﬁght with Ares, and now he and all his children wanted to
kill me. I didn’t need to make Dionysus mad, too.
‘Sorry,’ I said. ‘I couldn’t help it. It’s just so unfair.’
She stopped by the armoury and looked out across the
valley, towards the top of Half-Blood Hill. Her pine tree was
still there, the Golden Fleece glittering in its lowest branch.
The tree’s magic still protected the borders of camp, but it
no longer used Thalia’s spirit for power.
‘Percy, everything is unfair,’ Thalia muttered. ‘Sometimes
I wish…’
She didn’t ﬁnish, but her tone was so sad I felt sorry for
her. With her ragged black hair and her black punk clothes,
an old wool overcoat wrapped round her, she looked like
some kind of huge raven, completely out of place in the
white landscape.
601
‘We’ll get Annabeth back,’ I promised. ‘I just don’t know
how yet.’
‘First I found out that Luke is lost,’ she said. ‘Now
Annabeth –’
‘Don’t think like that.’
‘You’re right.’ She straightened up. ‘We’ll ﬁnd a way.’
Over at the basketball court, a few of the Hunters were
shooting hoops. One of them was arguing with a guy from
the Ares cabin. The Ares kid had his hand on his sword and
the Hunter girl looked like she was going to exchange her
basketball for a bow and arrow any second.
‘I’ll break that up,’ Thalia said. ‘You circulate round the
cabins. Tell everybody about capture the ﬂag tomorrow.’
‘All right. You should be team captain.’
‘No, no,’ she said. ‘You’ve been at camp longer. You do it.’
‘We can, uh… co-captain or something.’
She looked about as comfortable with that as I felt, but
she nodded.
As she headed for the court, I said, ‘Hey, Thalia.’
‘Yeah?’
‘I’m sorry about what happened at Westover. I should’ve
waited for you guys.’
‘’S okay, Percy. I probably would’ve done the same thing.’
She shifted from foot to foot, like she was trying to decide
whether or not to say more. ‘You know, you asked about my
mom and I kinda snapped at you. It’s just… I went back to
ﬁnd her after seven years, and I found out she died in Los
Angeles. She, um… she was a heavy drinker, and apparently
she was out driving late one night about two years ago,
and…’ Thalia blinked hard.
‘I’m sorry.’
‘Yeah, well. It’s… it’s not like we were ever close. I ran
away when I was ten. Best two years of my life were when I
was running around with Luke and Annabeth. But still –’
‘That’s why you had trouble with the sun van.’
She gave me a wary look. ‘What do you mean?’
602
‘The way you stiﬀened up. You must’ve been thinking
about your mom, not wanting to get behind the wheel.’
I was sorry I’d said anything. Thalia’s expression was
dangerously close to Zeus’s, the one time I’d seen him get
angry – like any minute, her eyes would shoot a million
volts.
‘Yeah,’ she muttered. ‘Yeah, that must’ve been it.’
She trudged oﬀ towards the court, where the Ares camper
and the Hunter were trying to kill each other with a sword
and a basketball.
The cabins were the weirdest collection of buildings you’ve
ever seen. Zeus and Hera’s big white-columned buildings,
Cabins One and Two, stood in the middle, with ﬁve gods’
cabins on the left and ﬁve goddesses’ cabins on the right, so
they all made a U round the central green and the barbecue
hearth.
I made the rounds, telling everybody about capture the
ﬂag. I woke up some Ares kid from his midday nap and he
yelled at me to go away. When I asked him where Clarisse
was he said, ‘Went on a quest for Chiron. Top secret!’
‘Is she okay?’
‘Haven’t heard from her in a month. She’s missing in
action. Like your butt’s gonna be if you don’t get outta
here!’
I decided to let him go back to sleep.
Finally I got to Cabin Three, the cabin of Poseidon. It was a
low grey building hewn from sea stone, with shells and coral
fossils imprinted in the rock. Inside, it was just as empty as
always, except for my bunk. A Minotaur horn hung on the
wall next to my pillow.
I took Annabeth’s baseball cap out of my backpack and
set it on my nightstand. I’d give it to her when I found her.
And I would ﬁnd her.
I took oﬀ my wristwatch and activated the shield. It
creaked noisily as it spiralled out. Dr Thorn’s spikes had
603
dented the brass in a dozen places. One gash kept the
shield from opening all the way, so it looked like a pizza with
two slices missing. The beautiful metal pictures that my
brother had crafted were all banged up. In the picture of me
and Annabeth ﬁghting the Hydra, it looked like a meteor had
made a crater in my head. I hung the shield on its hook,
next to the Minotaur horn, but it was painful to look at now.
Maybe Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin could ﬁx it for
me. He was the best armoursmith in the camp. I’d ask him
at dinner.
I was staring at the shield when I noticed a strange sound
– water gurgling – and I realized there was something new in
the room. At the back of the cabin was a big basin of grey
sea rock, with a spout like the head of a ﬁsh carved in stone.
Out of its mouth burst a stream of water, a saltwater spring
that trickled into the pool. The water must’ve been hot,
because it sent mist into the cold winter air like a sauna. It
made the room feel warm and summery, fresh with the
smell of the sea.
I stepped up to the pool. There was no note attached or
anything, but I knew it could only be a gift from Poseidon.
I looked into the water and said, ‘Thanks, Dad.’
The surface rippled. At the bottom of the pool, coins
shimmered – a dozen or so golden drachma. I realized what
the fountain was for. It was a reminder to keep in touch with
my family.
I opened the nearest window, and the wintry sunlight
made a rainbow in the mist. Then I ﬁshed a coin out of the
hot water.
‘Iris, O Goddess of the Rainbow,’ I said, ‘accept my
oﬀering.’
I tossed a coin into the mist and it disappeared. Then I
realized I didn’t know who to contact ﬁrst.
My mom? That would’ve been the ‘good son’ thing to do,
but she wouldn’t be worried about me yet. She was used to
me disappearing for days or weeks at a time.
604
My father? It had been way too long, almost two years,
since I’d actually talked to him. But could you even send an
Iris-message to a god? I’d never tried. Would it make them
mad, like a sales call or something?
I hesitated. Then I made up my mind.
‘Show me Tyson,’ I requested. ‘At the forges of the
Cyclopes.’
The mist shimmered, and the image of my half-brother
appeared. He was surrounded by ﬁre, which would’ve been
a problem if he weren’t a Cyclops. He was bent over an
anvil, hammering a red-hot sword blade. Sparks ﬂew and
ﬂames swirled around his body. There was a marble-framed
window behind him, and it looked out onto dark blue water –
the bottom of the ocean.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
He didn’t hear me at ﬁrst because of the hammering and
the roar of the ﬂames.
‘TYSON!’
He turned, and his one enormous eye widened. His face
broke into a crooked yellow grin. ‘Percy!’
He dropped the sword blade and ran at me, trying to give
me a hug. The vision blurred and I instinctively lurched
back. ‘Tyson, it’s an Iris-message. I’m not really here.’
‘Oh.’ He came back into view, looking embarrassed. ‘Oh, I
knew that. Yes.’
‘How are you?’ I asked. ‘How’s the job?’
His eye lit up. ‘Love the job! Look!’ He picked up the hot
sword blade with his bare hands. ‘I made this!’
‘That’s really cool.’
‘I wrote my name on it. Right there.’
‘Awesome. Listen, do you talk to Dad much?’
Tyson’s smile faded. ‘Not much. Daddy is busy. He is
worried about the war.’
‘What do you mean?’
Tyson sighed. He stuck the sword blade out the window,
where it made a cloud of boiling bubbles. When Tyson
605
brought it back in, the metal was cool. ‘Old sea spirits
making trouble. Aigaios. Oceanus. Those guys.’
I sort of knew what he was talking about. He meant the
immortals who ruled the oceans back in the days of the
Titans. Before the Olympians took over. The fact that they
were back now, with the Titan Lord Kronos and his allies
gaining strength, was not good.
‘Is there anything I can do?’ I asked.
Tyson shook his head sadly. ‘We are arming the mermaids.
They need a thousand more swords by tomorrow.’ He looked
at his sword blade and sighed. ‘Old spirits are protecting the
bad boat.’
‘The Princess Andromeda?’ I said. ‘Luke’s boat?’
‘Yes. They make it hard to ﬁnd. Protect it from Daddy’s
storms. Otherwise he would smash it.’
‘Smashing it would be good.’
Tyson perked up, as if he’d just had another thought.
‘Annabeth! Is she there?’
‘Oh, well…’ My heart felt like a bowling ball. Tyson thought
Annabeth was just about the coolest thing since peanut
butter (and he seriously loved peanut butter). I didn’t have
the heart to tell him she was missing. He’d start crying so
bad he’d probably put out his ﬁres. ‘Well, no… she’s not
here right now.’
‘Tell her hello!’ He beamed. ‘Hello to Annabeth!’
‘Okay.’ I fought back a lump in my throat. ‘I’ll do that.’
‘And, Percy, don’t worry about the bad boat. It is going
away.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘Panama Canal! Very far away.’
I frowned. Why would Luke take his demon-infested cruise
ship all the way down there? The last time we’d seen him,
he’d been cruising along the East Coast, recruiting half-
bloods and training his monstrous army.
‘All right,’ I said, not feeling reassured. ‘That’s… good. I
guess.’
606
In the forges, a deep voice bellowed something I couldn’t
make out. Tyson ﬂinched. ‘Got to get back to work! Boss will
get mad. Good luck, brother!’
‘Okay, tell Dad –’
But before I could ﬁnish the vision shimmered and faded. I
was alone again in my cabin, feeling even lonelier than
before.
I was pretty miserable at dinner that night.
I mean, the food was excellent as usual. You can’t go
wrong with barbecue, pizza and never-empty soda goblets.
The torches and braziers kept the outdoor pavilion warm,
but we all had to sit with our cabin mates, which meant I
was alone at the Poseidon table. Thalia sat alone at the
Zeus table, but we couldn’t sit together. Camp rules. At least
the Hephaestus, Ares and Hermes cabins had a few people
each. Nico sat with the Stoll brothers, since new campers
always got stuck in the Hermes cabin if their Olympian
parent was unknown. The Stoll brothers seemed to be trying
to convince Nico that poker was a much better game than
Mythomagic. I hoped Nico didn’t have any money to lose.
The only table that really seemed to be having a good
time was the Artemis table. The Hunters drank and ate and
laughed like one big happy family. Zoë sat at the head like
she was the mama. She didn’t laugh as much as the others,
but she did smile from time to time. Her silver lieutenant’s
band glittered in the dark braids of her hair. I thought she
looked a lot nicer when she smiled. Bianca di Angelo
seemed to be having a great time. She was trying to learn
how to arm wrestle from the big girl who’d picked a ﬁght
with the Ares kid on the basketball court. The bigger girl was
beating her every time, but Bianca didn’t seem to mind.
When we’d ﬁnished eating, Chiron made the customary
toast to the gods and formally welcomed the Hunters of
Artemis. The clapping was pretty half-hearted. Then he
607
announced 
the 
‘goodwill’ 
capture-the-ﬂag 
game 
for
tomorrow night, which got a much better reception.
Afterwards, we all trailed back to our cabins for an early,
winter lights out. I was exhausted, which meant I fell asleep
easily. That was the good part. The bad part was I had a
nightmare, and even by my standards it was a whopper.
Annabeth was on a dark hillside, shrouded in fog. It almost
seemed like the Underworld, because I immediately felt
claustrophobic and I couldn’t see the sky above – just a
close heavy darkness, as if I were in a cave.
Annabeth struggled up the hill. Old broken Greek columns
of black marble were scattered around, as though
something had blasted a huge building to ruins.
‘Thorn!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Where are you? Why did you
bring me here?’ She scrambled over a section of broken wall
and came to the crest of the hill.
She gasped.
There was Luke. And he was in pain.
He was crumpled on the rocky ground, trying to rise. The
blackness seemed to be thicker around him, fog swirling
hungrily. His clothes were in tatters and his face was
scratched and drenched with sweat.
‘Annabeth!’ he called. ‘Help me! Please!’
She ran forward.
I tried to cry out: He’s a traitor! Don’t trust him!
But my voice didn’t work in the dream.
Annabeth had tears in her eyes. She reached down like
she wanted to touch Luke’s face, but at the last second she
hesitated.
‘What happened?’ she asked.
‘They left me here,’ Luke groaned. ‘Please. It’s killing me.’
I couldn’t see what was wrong with him. He seemed to be
struggling against some invisible curse, as though the fog
were squeezing him to death.
608
‘Why should I trust you?’ Annabeth asked. Her voice was
ﬁlled with hurt.
‘You shouldn’t,’ Luke said. ‘I’ve been terrible to you. But, if
you don’t help me, I’ll die.’
Let him die, I wanted to scream. Luke had tried to kill us in
cold blood too many times. He didn’t deserve anything from
Annabeth.
Then the darkness above Luke began to crumble, like a
cavern roof in an earthquake. Huge chunks of black rock
began falling. Annabeth rushed in just as a crack appeared,
and the whole ceiling dropped. She held it somehow – tons
of rock. She kept it from collapsing on her and Luke just with
her own strength. It was impossible. She shouldn’t have
been able to do that.
Luke rolled free, gasping. ‘Thanks,’ he managed.
‘Help me hold it,’ Annabeth groaned.
Luke caught his breath. His face was covered in grime and
sweat. He rose unsteadily.
‘I knew I could count on you.’ He began to walk away as
the trembling blackness threatened to crush Annabeth.
‘HELP ME!’ she pleaded.
‘Oh, don’t worry,’ Luke said. ‘Your help is on the way. It’s
all part of the plan. In the meantime, try not to die.’
The ceiling of darkness began to crumble more, pushing
Annabeth against the ground.
I sat bolt upright in bed, clawing at the sheets. There was no
sound in my cabin except the gurgle of the saltwater spring.
The clock on my nightstand read just after midnight.
Only a dream, but I was sure of two things: Annabeth was
in terrible danger. And Luke was responsible.
609
6    An Old Dead Friend Comes To Visit
 
The next morning after breakfast, I told Grover about my
dream. We sat in the meadow watching the satyrs chase the
wood nymphs through the snow. The nymphs had promised
to kiss the satyrs if they got caught, but they hardly ever
did. Usually the nymph would let the satyr get up a full head
of steam, then she’d turn into a snow-covered tree and the
poor satyr would slam into it head ﬁrst and get a pile of
snow dumped on him.
When I told Grover my nightmare, he started twirling his
ﬁnger in his shaggy leg fur.
‘A cave ceiling collapsed on her?’ he asked.
‘Yeah. What the heck does that mean?’
Grover shook his head. ‘I don’t know. But after what Zoë
dreamed –’
‘Whoa. What do you mean? Zoë had a dream like that?’
‘I… I don’t know, exactly. About three in the morning she
came to the Big House and demanded to talk to Chiron. She
looked really panicked.’
‘Wait, how do you know this?’
Grover blushed. ‘I was sort of camped outside the Artemis
cabin.’
‘What for?’
‘Just to be, you know, near them.’
‘You’re a stalker with hooves.’
‘I am not! Anyway, I followed her to the Big House and hid
in a bush and watched the whole thing. She got really upset
when Argus wouldn’t let her in. It was kind of a dangerous
scene.’
610
I tried to imagine that. Argus was the head of security for
camp – a big blond dude with eyes all over his body. He
rarely showed himself unless something serious was going
on. I wouldn’t want to place bets on a ﬁght between him
and Zoë Nightshade.
‘What did she say?’ I asked.
Grover grimaced. ‘Well, she starts talking really old-
fashioned when she gets upset, so it was kind of hard to
understand. But something about Artemis being in trouble
and needing the Hunters. And then she called Argus a boil-
brained lout… I think that’s a bad thing. And then he called
her –’
‘Whoa, wait. How could Artemis be in trouble?’
‘I… well, ﬁnally Chiron came out in his pyjamas and his
horse tail in curlers and –’
‘He wears curlers in his tail?’
Grover covered his mouth.
‘Sorry,’ I said. ‘Go on.’
‘Well, Zoë said she needed permission to leave camp
immediately. Chiron refused. He reminded Zoë that the
Hunters were supposed to stay here until they received
orders from Artemis. And she said…’ Grover gulped. ‘She
said, “How are we to get orders from Artemis if Artemis is
lost?”’
‘What do you mean lost? Like she needs directions?’
‘No. I think she meant gone. Taken. Kidnapped.’
‘Kidnapped?’ I tried to get my mind round that idea. ‘How
would you kidnap an immortal goddess? Is that even
possible?’
‘Well, yeah. I mean, it happened to Persephone.’
‘But she was like, the goddess of ﬂowers.’
Grover looked oﬀended. ‘Springtime.’
‘Whatever. Artemis is a lot more powerful than that. Who
could kidnap her? And why?’
Grover shook his head miserably. ‘I don’t know. Kronos?’
‘He can’t be that powerful already. Can he?’
611
The last time we’d seen Kronos, he’d been in tiny pieces.
Well… we hadn’t actually seen him. Thousands of years ago,
after the big Titan-God war, the gods had sliced him to bits
with his own scythe and scattered his remains in Tartarus,
which is like the gods’ bottomless recycling bin for their
enemies. Two summers ago, Kronos had tricked us to the
very edge of the pit and almost pulled us in. Then last
summer, on board Luke’s demon cruise ship, we’d seen a
golden coﬃn, where Luke claimed he was summoning the
Titan Lord out of the abyss, bit by bit, every time someone
new joined their cause. Kronos could inﬂuence people with
dreams and trick them, but I didn’t see how he could
physically overcome Artemis if he were still like a pile of evil
bark mulch.
‘I don’t know,’ Grover said. ‘I think somebody would know
if Kronos had re-formed. The gods would be more nervous.
But, still, it’s weird – you having a nightmare the same night
as Zoë. It’s almost like –’
‘They’re connected,’ I said.
Over in the frozen meadow, a satyr skidded on his hooves
as he chased after a redheaded tree nymph. She giggled
and held out her arms as he ran towards her. Pop! She
turned into a Scotch pine and he kissed the trunk at top
speed.
‘Ah, love,’ Grover said dreamily.
I thought about Zoë’s nightmare, which she’d had only a
few hours after mine.
‘I’ve got to talk to Zoë,’ I said.
‘Um, before you do…’ Grover took something out of his
coat pocket. It was a three-fold display like a travel
brochure. ‘You remember what you said – about how it was
weird the Hunters just happened to show up at Westover
Hall? I think they might’ve been scouting us.’
‘Scouting us? What do you mean?’
He gave me the brochure. It was about the Hunters of
Artemis. The front read, A WISE CHOICE FOR YOUR FUTURE!
612
Inside were pictures of young maidens doing hunter stuﬀ,
chasing monsters, shooting bows. There were captions like:
HEALTH BENEFITS: IMMORTALITY AND WHAT IT MEANS FOR
YOU! And A BOY-FREE TOMORROW!
‘I found that in Annabeth’s backpack,’ Grover said.
I stared at him. ‘I don’t understand.’
‘Well, it seems to me… maybe Annabeth was thinking
about joining.’
I’d like to say I took the news well.
The truth was I wanted to strangle the Hunters of Artemis
one eternal maiden at a time. The rest of the day I tried to
keep busy, but I was worried sick about Annabeth. I went to
javelin-throwing class, but the Ares camper in charge yelled
at me after I got distracted and threw the javelin at the
target before he got out of the way. I apologized for the hole
in his trousers, but he still sent me packing.
I visited the pegasus stables, but Silena Beauregard from
the Aphrodite cabin was having an argument with one of the
Hunters, and I decided I’d better not get involved.
After that, I sat in the empty chariot stands and sulked.
Down at the archery ﬁelds, Chiron was conducting target
practice. I knew he’d be the best person to talk to. Maybe
he could give me some advice, but something held me
back. I had a feeling Chiron would try to protect me, like he
always did. He might not tell me everything he knew.
I looked in the other direction. At the top of Half-Blood Hill,
Mr D and Argus were feeding the baby dragon that guarded
the Golden Fleece.
Then it occurred to me: no one would be in the Big House.
There was someone else… something else I could ask for
guidance.
My blood was humming in my ears as I ran into the house
and took the stairs. I’d only done this once before, and I still
had nightmares about it. I opened the trapdoor and stepped
into the attic.
613
The room was dark and dusty and cluttered with junk, just
like I remembered. There were shields with monster bites
out of them, and swords bent in the shapes of daemon
heads, and a bunch of taxidermy, like a stuﬀed harpy and a
bright orange python.
Over by the window, sitting on a three-legged stool, was
the shrivelled-up mummy of an old lady in a tie-dyed hippie
dress. The Oracle.
I made myself walk towards her. I waited for green mist to
billow from the mummy’s mouth, like it had before, but
nothing happened.
‘Hi,’ I said. ‘Uh, what’s up?’
I winced at how stupid that sounded. Not much could be
‘up’ when you’re dead and stuck in the attic. But I knew the
spirit of the Oracle was in there somewhere. I could feel a
cold presence in the room, like a coiled sleeping snake.
‘I have a question,’ I said a little louder. ‘I need to know
about Annabeth. How can I save her?’
No answer. The sun slanted through the dirty attic
window, making the dust motes dance in the air.
I waited longer.
Then I got angry. I was being stonewalled by a corpse.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Fine. I’ll ﬁgure it out myself.’
I turned and bumped into a big table full of souvenirs. It
seemed more cluttered than the last time I was here.
Heroes stored all kinds of stuﬀ in the attic: quest trophies
they no longer wanted to keep in their cabins, or stuﬀ that
held painful memories. I knew Luke had stored a dragon
claw somewhere up here – the one that had scarred his
face. There was a broken sword hilt labelled: This broke and
Leroy got killed. 1999.
Then I noticed a pink silk scarf with a label attached to it. I
picked up the tag and tried to read it:
SCARF OF THE GODDESS APHRODITE
Recovered at Waterland, Denver, Co.,
614
by Annabeth Chase and Percy Jackson
 
I stared at the scarf. I’d totally forgotten about it. Two years
ago, Annabeth had ripped this scarf out of my hands and
said something like, Oh, no. No love magic for you!
I’d just assumed she’d thrown it away. And yet here it was.
She’d kept it all this time? And why had she stashed it in the
attic?
I turned to the mummy. She hadn’t moved, but the
shadows across her face made it look like she was smiling
gruesomely.
I dropped the scarf and tried not to run towards the exit.
That night after dinner, I was seriously ready to beat the
Hunters at capture the ﬂag. It was going to be a small
game. Only thirteen Hunters, including Bianca di Angelo,
and about the same number of campers.
Zoë Nightshade looked pretty upset. She kept glancing
resentfully at Chiron, like she couldn’t believe he was
making her do this. The other Hunters didn’t look too happy
either. Unlike last night, they weren’t laughing or joking
around. They just huddled together in the dining pavilion,
whispering nervously to each other as they strapped on
their armour. Some of them even looked like they’d been
crying. I guess Zoë had told them about her nightmare.
On our team, we had Beckendorf and two other
Hephaestus guys, a few from the Ares cabin (though it still
seemed strange that Clarisse wasn’t around), the Stoll
brothers and Nico from Hermes cabin, and a few Aphrodite
kids. It was weird that the Aphrodite cabin wanted to play.
Usually they sat on the sidelines, chatted and checked their
reﬂections in the river and stuﬀ, but when they heard we
were ﬁghting the Hunters, they were raring to go.
‘I’ll show them “love is worthless”,’ Silena Beauregard
grumbled as she strapped on her armour. I’ll pulverize
them!’
615
That left Thalia and me.
‘I’ll take the oﬀence,’ Thalia volunteered. ‘You take
defence.’
‘Oh.’ I hesitated, because I’d been about to say the exact
same thing, only reversed. ‘Don’t you think, with your shield
and all, you’d be better defence?’
Thalia already had Aegis on her arm, and even our own
teammates were giving her a wide berth, trying not to
cower before the bronze head of Medusa.
‘Well, I was thinking it would make better oﬀence,’ Thalia
said. ‘Besides, you’ve had more practice at defence.’
I wasn’t sure if she was teasing me. I’d had some pretty
bad experiences with defence on capture the ﬂag. My ﬁrst
year, Annabeth had put me out as a kind of bait, and I’d
almost been gored to death with spears and killed by a
hellhound.
‘Yeah, no problem,’ I lied.
‘Cool.’ Thalia turned to help some of the Aphrodite kids,
who were having trouble suiting up their armour without
breaking their nails. Nico di Angelo ran up to me with a big
grin on his face.
‘Percy, this is awesome!’ His blue-feathered bronze
helmet was falling in his eyes, and his breastplate was
about six sizes too big. I wondered if there was any way I’d
looked that ridiculous when I’d ﬁrst arrived. Unfortunately, I
probably had.
Nico lifted his sword with eﬀort. ‘Do we get to kill the
other team?’
‘Well… no.’
‘But the Hunters are immortal, right?’
‘That’s only if they don’t fall in battle. Besides –’
‘It would be awesome if we just, like, resurrected as soon
as we were killed, so we could keep ﬁghting, and –’
‘Nico, this is serious. Real swords. These can hurt.’
He stared at me, a little disappointed, and I realized that
I’d just sounded like my mother. Whoa. Not a good sign.
616
I patted Nico on the shoulder. ‘Hey, it’s cool. Just follow
the team. Stay out of Zoë’s way. We’ll have a blast.’
Chiron’s hoof thundered on the pavilion ﬂoor.
‘Heroes!’ he called. ‘You know the rules! The river is the
boundary line. Blue team, Camp Half-Blood, shall take the
west woods. Hunters of Artemis, red team, shall take the
east woods. I will serve as referee and battleﬁeld medic. No
intentional maiming, please! All magic items are allowed. To
your positions!’
‘Sweet,’ Nico whispered next to me. ‘What kind of magic
items? Do I get one?’
I was about to break it to him that he didn’t, when Thalia
said, ‘Blue team! Follow me!’
They cheered and followed. I had to run to catch up, and
tripped over somebody’s shield, so I didn’t look much like a
co-captain. More like an idiot.
We set our ﬂag at the top of Zeus’s Fist. It’s this cluster of
boulders in the middle of the west woods that, if you look at
it just the right way, looks like a huge ﬁst sticking out of the
ground. If you look at it from any other side, it looks like a
pile of enormous deer droppings, but Chiron wouldn’t let us
call the place the Poop Pile, especially after it had been
named for Zeus, who doesn’t have much of a sense of
humor.
Anyway, it was a good place to set the ﬂag. The top
boulder was six metres tall and really hard to climb, so the
ﬂag was clearly visible, like the rules said it had to be, and it
didn’t matter that the guards weren’t allowed to stand
within ten metres of it.
I set Nico on guard duty with Beckendorf and the Stoll
brothers, ﬁguring he’d be safely out of the way.
‘We’ll send out a decoy to the left,’ Thalia told the team.
‘Silena, you lead that.’
‘Got it!’
617
‘Take Laurel and Jason. They’re good runners. Make a wide
arc round the Hunters, attract as many as you can. I’ll take
the main raiding party round to the right and catch them by
surprise.’
Everybody nodded. It sounded good, and Thalia said it
with such conﬁdence you couldn’t help but believe it would
work.
Thalia looked at me. ‘Anything to add, Percy?’
‘Um, yeah. Keep sharp on defence. We’ve got four guards,
two scouts. That’s not much for a big forest. I’ll be roving.
Yell if you need help.’
‘And don’t leave your post!’ Thalia said.
‘Unless you see a golden opportunity,’ I added.
Thalia scowled. ‘Just don’t leave your post.’
‘Right, unless –’
‘Percy!’ She touched my arm and shocked me. I mean,
everybody can give static shocks in the winter, but when
Thalia does, it hurts. I guess it’s because her dad is the god
of lightning. She’s been known to fry oﬀ people’s eyebrows.
‘Sorry,’ Thalia said, though she didn’t sound particularly
sorry. ‘Now, is everybody clear?’
Everybody nodded. We broke into our smaller groups. The
horn sounded, and the game began.
Silena’s group disappeared into the woods on the left.
Thalia’s group gave it a few seconds, then darted oﬀ
towards the right.
I waited for something to happen. I climbed Zeus’s Fist
and had a good view over the forest. I remembered how the
Hunters had stormed out of the woods when they fought the
manticore, and I was prepared for something like that – one
huge charge that could overwhelm us. But nothing
happened.
I caught a glimpse of Silena and her two scouts. They ran
through a clearing, followed by ﬁve of the Hunters, leading
them deep into the woods and away from Thalia. The plan
seemed to be working. Then I spotted another clump of
618
Hunters heading to the right, bows ready. They must’ve
spotted Thalia.
‘What’s happening?’ Nico demanded, trying to climb up
next to me.
My mind was racing. Thalia would never get through, but
the Hunters were divided. With that many on either ﬂank,
their centre had to be wide open. If I moved fast…
I looked at Beckendorf. ‘Can you guys hold the fort?’
Beckendorf snorted. ‘Of course.’
‘I’m going in.’
The Stoll brothers and Nico cheered as I raced towards the
boundary line.
I was running at top speed and I felt great. I leaped over
the creek into enemy territory. I could see their silver ﬂag up
ahead, only one guard, who wasn’t even looking in my
direction. I heard ﬁghting to my left and right, somewhere in
the woods. I had it made.
The guard turned at the last minute. It was Bianca di
Angelo. Her eyes widened as I slammed into her and she
went sprawling in the snow.
‘Sorry!’ I yelled. I ripped down the silver silk ﬂag from the
tree and took oﬀ.
I was ten metres away before Bianca managed to yell for
help. I thought I was home free.
ZIP! A silvery cord raced across my ankles and fastened to
the tree next to me. A trip wire, ﬁred from a bow! Before I
could even think about stopping I went down hard,
sprawling in the snow.
‘Percy!’ Thalia yelled, oﬀ to my left. ‘What are you doing?’
Before she reached me, an arrow exploded at her feet and
a cloud of yellow smoke billowed around her team. They
started coughing and gagging. I could smell the gas from
across the woods – the horrible smell of sulphur.
‘No fair!’ Thalia gasped. ‘Fart arrows are unsportsmanlike!’
I got up and started running again. Only a few more
metres to the river and I had the game. More arrows
619
whizzed past my ears. A Hunter came out of nowhere and
slashed at me with her knife, but I parried and kept running.
I heard yelling from our side of the river. Beckendorf and
Nico were running towards me. I thought they were coming
to welcome me back, but then I saw they were chasing
someone – Zoë Nightshade, racing towards me like a
cheetah, dodging campers with no trouble. And she had our
ﬂag in her hands.
‘No!’ I yelled, and poured on the speed.
I was a metre from the water when Zoë bolted across to
her own side, slamming into me for good measure. The
Hunters cheered as both sides converged on the creek.
Chiron appeared out of the woods, looking grim. He had the
Stoll brothers on his back, and it looked as if both of them
had taken some nasty whacks to the head. Connor Stoll had
two arrows sticking out of his helmet like antennae.
‘The Hunters win!’ Chiron announced without pleasure.
Then he muttered, ‘For the ﬁfty-sixth time in a row.’
‘Perseus Jackson!’ Thalia yelled, storming towards me. She
smelled like rotten eggs, and she was so mad that blue
sparks ﬂickered on her armour. Everybody cringed and
backed up because of Aegis. It took all my willpower not to
cower.
‘What in the name of the gods were you THINKING?’ she
bellowed.
I balled my ﬁsts. I’d had enough bad stuﬀ happen to me
for one day. I didn’t need this. ‘I got the ﬂag, Thalia!’ I shook
it in her face. ‘I saw a chance and I took it!’
‘I WAS AT THEIR BASE!’ Thalia yelled. ‘But the ﬂag was
gone. If you hadn’t butted in, we would’ve won.’
‘You had too many on you!’
‘Oh, so it’s my fault?’
‘I didn’t say that.’
‘Argh!’ Thalia pushed me, and a shock went through my
body that blew me backwards three metres into the water.
620
Some of the campers gasped. A couple of the Hunters
stiﬂed laughs.
‘Sorry!’ Thalia said, turning pale. ‘I didn’t mean to –’
Anger roared in my ears. A wave erupted from the river,
blasting into Thalia’s face and dousing her from head to toe.
I stood up. ‘Yeah,’ I growled. ‘I didn’t mean to either.’
Thalia was breathing heavily.
‘Enough!’ Chiron ordered.
But Thalia held out her spear. ‘You want some, Seaweed
Brain?’
Somehow, it was okay when Annabeth called me that – at
least, I’d got used to it – but hearing it from Thalia was not
cool.
‘Bring it on, Pinecone Face!’
I raised Riptide, but before I could even defend myself,
Thalia yelled, and a blast of lightning came down from the
sky, hit her spear like a lightning rod, and slammed into my
chest.
I sat down hard. There was a burning smell; I had a feeling
it was my clothes.
‘Thalia!’ Chiron said. ‘That is enough!’
I got to my feet and willed the entire river to rise. It
swirled up, hundreds of gallons of water in a massive icy
funnel cloud.
‘Percy!’ Chiron pleaded.
I was about to hurl it at Thalia when I saw something in
the woods. I lost my anger and my concentration all at once.
The water splashed back into the riverbed. Thalia was so
surprised she turned to see what I was looking at.
Someone… something was approaching. It was shrouded
in a murky green mist, but as it got closer, the campers and
Hunters gasped.
‘This is impossible,’ Chiron said. I’d never heard him
sound so nervous. ‘It… she has never left the attic. Never.’
And yet the withered mummy that held the Oracle
shuﬄed forward until she stood in the centre of the group.
621
Mist curled around our feet, turning the snow a sickly shade
of green.
None of us dared move. Then her voice hissed inside my
head. Apparently everyone could hear it, because several
clutched their hands over the ears.
I am the spirit of Delphi, the voice said. Speaker of the
prophecies of Phoebus Apollo, slayer of the mighty Python.
The Oracle regarded me with its cold, dead eyes. Then
she 
turned 
unmistakably 
towards 
Zoë 
Nightshade.
Approach, Seeker, and ask.
Zoë swallowed. ‘What must I do to help my goddess?’
The Oracle’s mouth opened, and green mist poured out. I
saw the vague image of a mountain, and a girl standing at
the barren peak. It was Artemis, but she was wrapped in
chains, fettered to the rocks. She was kneeling, her hands
raised as if to fend oﬀ an attacker, and it looked like she was
in pain. The Oracle spoke:
 
Five shall go west to the goddess in chains,
One shall be lost in the land without rain,
The bane of Olympus shows the trail,
Campers and Hunters combined prevail,
The Titan’s curse must one withstand,
And one shall perish by a parent’s hand.
 
 
Then, as we were watching, the Mist swirled and retreated
like a great green serpent into the mummy’s mouth. The
Oracle sat down on a rock and became as still as she’d been
in the attic, as if she might sit by this creek for a hundred
years.
622
7    Everybody Hates Me But The Horse
 
The least the Oracle could’ve done was walk back to the
attic by herself.
Instead, Grover and I were elected to carry her. I didn’t
ﬁgure that was because we were the most popular.
‘Watch her head!’ Grover warned as we went up the
stairs. But it was too late.
Bonk! I whacked her mummiﬁed face against the trapdoor
frame and dust ﬂew.
‘Ah, man.’ I set her down and checked for damage. ‘Did I
break anything?’
‘I can’t tell,’ Grover admitted.
We hauled her up and set her on her tripod stool, both of
us huﬃng and sweating. Who knew a mummy could weigh
so much?
I assumed she wouldn’t talk to me, and I was right. I was
relieved when we ﬁnally got out of there and slammed the
attic door shut.
‘Well,’ Grover said, ‘that was gross.’
I knew he was trying to keep things light for my sake, but I
still felt really down. The whole camp would be mad at me
for losing the game to the Hunters, and then there was the
new prophecy from the Oracle. It was like the spirit of Delphi
had gone out of her way to exclude me. She’d ignored my
question and walked half a mile to talk to Zoë. And she’d
said nothing, not even a hint, about Annabeth.
‘What will Chiron do?’ I asked Grover.
‘I wish I knew.’ He looked wistfully out of the second-ﬂoor
window at the rolling hills covered in snow. ‘I want to be out
623
there.’
‘Searching for Annabeth?’
He had a little trouble focusing on me. Then he blushed.
‘Oh, right. That too. Of course.’
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘What were you thinking?’
He clopped his hooves uneasily. ‘Just something the
manticore said, about the Great Stirring. I can’t help but
wonder… if all those ancient powers are waking up,
maybe… maybe not all of them are evil.’
‘You mean Pan.’
I felt kind of selﬁsh, because I’d totally forgotten about
Grover’s life ambition. The nature god had gone missing two
thousand years ago. He was rumoured to have died, but the
satyrs didn’t believe that. They were determined to ﬁnd
him. They’d been searching in vain for centuries, and Grover
was convinced he’d be the one to succeed. This year, with
Chiron putting all the satyrs on emergency duty to ﬁnd half-
bloods, Grover hadn’t been able to continue his search. It
must’ve been driving him nuts.
‘I’ve let the trail go cold,’ he said. ‘I feel restless, like I’m
missing 
something 
really 
important. 
He’s 
out 
there
somewhere. I can just feel it.’
I didn’t know what to say. I wanted to encourage him, but I
didn’t know how. My optimism had pretty much been
trampled into the snow out there in the woods, along with
our capture-the-ﬂag hopes.
Before I could respond, Thalia tromped up the stairs. She
was oﬃcially not talking to me now, but she looked at
Grover and said, ‘Tell Percy to get his butt downstairs.’
‘Why?’ I asked.
‘Did he say something?’ Thalia asked Grover.
‘Um, he asked why.’
‘Dionysus is calling a council of cabin leaders to discuss
the prophecy,’ she said. ‘Unfortunately, that includes Percy.’
624
The council was held round a ping-pong table in the rec
room. Dionysus waved his hand and supplied snacks: Cheez
Whiz, crackers and several bottles of red wine. Then Chiron
reminded him that wine was against his restrictions and
most of us were underage. Mr D sighed. With a snap of his
ﬁngers the wine turned to Diet Coke. Nobody drank that
either.
Mr D and Chiron (in wheelchair form) sat at one end of the
table. Zoë and Bianca di Angelo (who had kind of become
Zoë’s personal assistant) took the other end. Thalia and
Grover and I sat along the right, and the other head
councillors, Beckendorf, Silena Beauregard, and the Stoll
brothers, sat on the left. The Ares kids were supposed to
send a representative, too, but all of them had got broken
limbs (accidentally) during capture the ﬂag, courtesy of the
Hunters. They were resting up in the inﬁrmary.
Zoë started the meeting oﬀ on a positive note. ‘This is
pointless.’
‘Cheez Whiz!’ Grover gasped. He began scooping up
crackers and ping-pong balls and spraying them with
topping.
‘There is no time for talk,’ Zoë continued. ‘Our goddess
needs us. The Hunters must leave immediately.’
‘And go where?’ Chiron asked.
‘West!’ Bianca said. I was amazed at how diﬀerent she
looked after just a few days with the Hunters. Her dark hair
was braided like Zoë’s now, so you could actually see her
face. She had a splash of freckles across her nose, and her
dark eyes vaguely reminded me of someone famous, but I
couldn’t think who. She looked like she’d been working out,
and her skin glowed faintly, like the other Hunters, as if
she’d been taking showers in liquid moonlight. ‘You heard
the prophecy. ‘Five shall go west to the goddess in chains.’
We can get ﬁve hunters and go.’
‘Yes,’ Zoë agreed. ‘Artemis is being held hostage! We
must ﬁnd her and free her.’
625
‘You’re 
missing 
something, 
as 
usual,’ 
Thalia 
said.
‘Campers and Hunters combined prevail. We’re supposed to
do this together.’
‘No!’ Zoë said. ‘The Hunters do not need thy help.’
‘Your,’ Thalia grumbled. ‘Nobody has said thy in like three
hundred years, Zoë. Get with the times.’
Zoë hesitated, like she was trying to form the word
correctly. ‘Yerrr. We do not need yerrr help.’
Thalia rolled her eyes. ‘Forget it.’
‘I fear the prophecy says you do need our help,’ Chiron
said. ‘Campers and Hunters must cooperate.’
‘Or do they?’ Mr D mused, swirling his Diet Coke under his
nose like it had a ﬁne bouquet. ‘One shall be lost. One shall
perish. That sounds rather nasty, doesn’t it? What if you fail
because you try to cooperate?’
‘Mr D,’ Chiron sighed, ‘with all due respect, whose side are
you on?’
Dionysus raised his eyebrows. ‘Sorry, my dear centaur.
Just trying to be helpful.’
‘We’re supposed to work together,’ Thalia said stubbornly.
‘I don’t like it either, Zoë, but you know prophecies. You
want to ﬁght against one?’
Zoë grimaced, but I could tell Thalia had scored a point.
‘We must not delay,’ Chiron warned. ‘Today is Sunday. This
very Friday, December twenty-ﬁrst, is the winter solstice.’
‘Oh, joy,’ Dionysus muttered. ‘Another dull annual
meeting.’
‘Artemis must be present at the solstice,’ Zoë said. ‘She
has been one of the most vocal on the council arguing for
action against Kronos’s minions. If she is absent, the gods
will decide nothing. We will lose another year of war
preparations.’
‘Are you suggesting that the gods have trouble acting
together, young lady?’ Dionysus asked.
‘Yes, Lord Dionysus.’
626
Mr D nodded. ‘Just checking. You’re right, of course. Carry
on.’
‘I must agree with Zoë,’ said Chiron. ‘Artemis’s presence
at the winter council is critical. We have only a week to ﬁnd
her. And possibly even more important: to locate the
monster she was hunting. Now, we must decide who goes
on this quest.’
‘Three and two,’ I said.
Everybody looked at me. Even Thalia forgot to ignore me.
‘We’re supposed to have ﬁve,’ I said, feeling self-
conscious. ‘Three Hunters, two from Camp Half-Blood. That’s
more than fair.’
Thalia and Zoë exchanged looks.
‘Well,’ Thalia said. ‘It does make sense.’
Zoë grunted. ‘I would prefer to take all the Hunters. We
will need strength of numbers.’
‘You’ll be retracing the goddess’s path,’ Chiron reminded
her. ‘Moving quickly. No doubt Artemis tracked the scent of
this rare monster, whatever it is, as she moved west. You
will have to do the same. The prophecy was clear: The bane
of Olympus shows the trail. What would your mistress say?
“Too many Hunters spoil the scent.” A small group is best.’
Zoë picked up a ping-pong paddle and studied it like she
was deciding who she wanted to whack ﬁrst. ‘This monster –
the bane of Olympus. I have hunted at Lady Artemis’s side
for many years, yet I have no idea what this beast might
be.’
Everybody looked at Dionysus, I guess because he was
the only god present and gods are supposed to know things.
He was ﬂipping through a wine magazine, but when
everyone got silent he glanced up. ‘Well, don’t look at me.
I’m a young god, remember? I don’t keep track of all those
ancient monsters and dusty Titans. They make for terrible
party conversation.’
‘Chiron,’ I said, ‘you don’t have any ideas about the
monster?’
627
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘I have several ideas, none of them
good. And none of them quite make sense. Typhon, for
instance, could ﬁt this description. He was truly a bane of
Olympus. Or the sea monster Ketos. But if either of these
were stirring, we would know it. They are ocean monsters
the size of skyscrapers. Your father Poseidon would already
have sounded the alarm. I fear this monster may be more
elusive. Perhaps even more powerful.’
‘That’s some serious danger you’re facing,’ Connor Stoll
said. (I liked how he said you and not we.) ‘It sounds like at
least two of the ﬁve are going to die.’
‘One shall be lost in the land without rain,’ Beckendorf
said. ‘If I were you, I’d stay out of the desert.’
There was a muttering of agreement.
‘And the Titan’s curse must one withstand,’ Silena said.
‘What could that mean?’
I saw Chiron and Zoë exchange a nervous look, but
whatever they were thinking, they didn’t share it.
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand,’ Grover said in
between bites of Cheez Whiz and ping-pong balls. ‘How is
that possible? Whose parent would kill them?’
There was a heavy silence round the table.
I glanced at Thalia and wondered if she was thinking the
same thing I was. Years ago, Chiron had had a prophecy
about the next child of the Big Three – Zeus, Poseidon or
Hades – who turned sixteen. Supposedly, that kid would
make a decision that would save or destroy the gods
forever. Because of that, the Big Three had taken an oath
after World War II not to have any more kids. But Thalia and
I had been born anyway, and now we were both getting
close to sixteen.
I remembered a conversation I’d had last year with
Annabeth. I’d asked her if I was so potentially dangerous,
why the gods didn’t just kill me.
Some of the gods would like to kill you, she’d said. But
they’re afraid of oﬀending Poseidon.
628
Could an Olympian parent turn against his half-blood
child? Would it sometimes be easier just to let them die? If
there were ever any half-bloods who needed to worry about
that, it was Thalia and me. I wondered if maybe I should’ve
sent Poseidon that seashell-pattern tie for Father’s Day after
all.
‘There will be deaths,’ Chiron decided. ‘That much we
know.’
‘Oh, goody!’ Dionysus said.
Everyone looked at him. He glanced up innocently from
the pages of Wine Connoisseur magazine. ‘Ah, Pinot Noir is
making a comeback. Don’t mind me.’
‘Percy is right,’ Silena Beauregard said. ‘Two campers
should go.’
‘Oh, I see,’ Zoë said sarcastically. ‘And I suppose you wish
to volunteer?’
Silena blushed. ‘I’m not going anywhere with the Hunters.
Don’t look at me!’
‘A daughter of Aphrodite does not wish to be looked at,’
Zoë scoﬀed. ‘What would thy mother say?’
Silena started to get out of her chair, but the Stoll
brothers pulled her back.
‘Stop it,’ Beckendorf said. He was a big guy with a bigger
voice. He didn’t talk much, but when he did people tended
to listen. ‘Let’s start with the Hunters. Which three of you
will go?’
Zoë stood. ‘I shall go, of course, and I will take Phoebe.
She is our best tracker.’
‘The big girl who likes to hit people on the head?’ Travis
Stoll asked cautiously.
Zoë nodded.
‘The one who put the arrows in my helmet?’ Connor
added.
‘Yes,’ Zoë snapped. ‘Why?’
‘Oh, nothing,’ Travis said. ‘Just we have a T-shirt for her
from the camp store.’ He held up a big silver T-shirt that
629
said ARTEMIS THE MOON GODDESS, HUNTING TOUR 2002,
with a huge list of national parks and stuﬀ underneath. ‘It’s
a collector’s item. She was admiring it. You want to give it to
her?’
I knew the Stolls were up to something. They always were.
But I guess Zoë didn’t know them as well as I did. She just
sighed and took the T-shirt. ‘As I was saying, I will take
Phoebe. And I wish Bianca to go.’
Bianca looked stunned. ‘Me? But… I’m so new. I wouldn’t
be any good.’
‘You will do ﬁne,’ Zoë insisted. ‘There is no better way to
prove thyself.’
Bianca closed her mouth. I felt kind of sorry for her. I
remembered my ﬁrst quest when I was twelve. I had felt
totally unprepared. A little honoured, maybe, but a lot
resentful and plenty scared. I ﬁgured the same things were
running around in Bianca’s head right now.
‘And for campers?’ Chiron asked. His eyes met mine, but I
couldn’t tell what he was thinking.
‘Me!’ Grover stood up so fast he bumped the ping-pong
table. He brushed cracker crumbs and ping-pong ball scraps
oﬀ his lap. ‘Anything to help Artemis!’
Zoë wrinkled her nose. ‘I think not, satyr. You are not even
a half-blood.’
‘But he is a camper,’ Thalia said. ‘And he’s got a satyr’s
senses and woodland magic. Can you play a tracker’s song
yet, Grover?’
‘Absolutely!’
Zoë wavered. I didn’t know what a tracker’s song was, but
apparently Zoë thought it was a good thing.
‘Very well,’ Zoë said. ‘And the second camper?’
‘I’ll go.’ Thalia stood and looked around, daring anyone to
question her.
Now, okay, maybe my maths skills weren’t the best. But it
suddenly occurred to me that we’d reached the number
ﬁve, and I wasn’t in the group.
630
‘Whoa, wait a sec,’ I said. ‘I want to go, too.’
Thalia said nothing. Chiron was still studying me, his eyes
sad.
‘Oh,’ Grover said, suddenly aware of the problem. ‘Whoa,
yeah, I forgot! Percy has to go. I didn’t mean… I’ll stay. Percy
should go in my place.’
‘He cannot,’ Zoë said. ‘He is a boy. I won’t have Hunters
travelling with a boy.’
‘You travelled here with me,’ I reminded her.
‘That was a short-term emergency, and it was ordered by
the goddess. I will not go across country and ﬁght many
dangers in the company of a boy.’
‘What about Grover?’ I demanded.
Zoë shook her head. ‘He does not count. He’s a satyr. He
is not technically a boy.’
‘Hey!’ Grover protested.
‘I have to go,’ I said. ‘I need to be on this quest.’
‘Why?’ Zoë asked. ‘Because of thy friend Annabeth?’
I felt myself blushing. I hated that everyone was looking at
me. ‘No! I mean, partly. I just feel like I’m supposed to go!’
Nobody rose to my defence. Mr D looked bored, still
reading his magazine. Silena, the Stoll brothers and
Beckendorf were staring at the table. Bianca gave me a look
of pity.
‘No,’ Zoë said ﬂatly. ‘I insist upon this. I will take a satyr if I
must, but not a male hero.’
Chiron sighed. ‘The quest is for Artemis. The Hunters
should be allowed to approve their companions.’
My ears were ringing as I sat down. I knew Grover and
some of the others were looking at me sympathetically, but
I couldn’t meet their eyes. I just sat there as Chiron
concluded the council.
‘So be it,’ he said. ‘Thalia and Grover will accompany Zoë,
Bianca and Phoebe. You shall leave at ﬁrst light. And may
the gods –’ he glanced at Dionysus – ‘present company
included, we hope – be with you.’
631
I didn’t show up for dinner that night, which was a mistake,
because Chiron and Grover came looking for me.
‘Percy, I’m so sorry!’ Grover said, sitting next to me on the
bunk. ‘I didn’t know they’d – that you’d – Honest!’
He started to sniﬄe, and I ﬁgured if I didn’t cheer him up
he’d either start bawling or chewing up my mattress. He
tends to eat inanimate objects whenever he gets upset.
‘It’s okay,’ I lied. ‘Really. It’s ﬁne.’
Grover’s lower lip trembled. ‘I wasn’t even thinking… I
was so focused on helping Artemis. But, I promise, I’ll look
everywhere for Annabeth. If I can ﬁnd her, I will.’
I nodded and tried to ignore the big crater that was
opening in my chest.
‘Grover,’ Chiron said, ‘perhaps you’d let me have a word
with Percy?’
‘Sure,’ he sniﬄed.
Chiron waited.
‘Oh,’ Grover said. ‘You mean alone. Sure, Chiron,’ He
looked at me miserably. ‘See? Nobody needs a goat.’
He trotted out the door, blowing his nose on his sleeve.
Chiron sighed and knelt on his horse legs. ‘Percy, I don’t
pretend to understand prophecies.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Well, maybe that’s because they don’t
make any sense.’
Chiron gazed at the saltwater spring gurgling in the corner
of the room. ‘Thalia would not have been my ﬁrst choice to
go on this quest. She’s too impetuous. She acts without
thinking. She is too sure of herself.’
‘Would you have chosen me?’
‘Frankly, no,’ he said. ‘You and Thalia are much alike.’
‘Thanks a lot.’
He smiled. ‘The diﬀerence is that you are less sure of
yourself than Thalia. That could be good or bad. But one
thing I can say: both of you together would be a dangerous
thing.’
‘We could handle it.’
632
‘The way you handled it at the creek tonight?’
I didn’t answer. He’d nailed me.
‘Perhaps it is for the best,’ Chiron mused. ‘You can go
home to your mother for the holidays. If we need you, we
can call.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Maybe.’
I pulled Riptide out of my pocket and set in on my
nightstand. It didn’t seem that I’d be using it for anything
but writing Christmas cards.
When he saw the pen, Chiron grimaced. ‘It’s no wonder
Zoë doesn’t want you along, I suppose. Not while you’re
carrying that particular weapon.’
I didn’t understand what he meant. Then I remembered
something he’d told me a long time ago, when he ﬁrst gave
me the magic sword: It has a long and tragic history, which
we need not go into.
I wanted to ask him about that, but then he pulled a
golden drachma from his saddlebag and tossed it to me.
‘Call your mother, Percy. Let her know you’re coming home
in the morning. And, ah, for what it’s worth… I almost
volunteered for this quest myself. I would have gone, if not
for the last line.’
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand. Yeah.’
I didn’t need to ask. I knew Chiron’s dad was Kronos, the
evil Titan Lord himself. The line would make perfect sense if
Chiron went on the quest. Kronos didn’t care for anyone,
including his own children.
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘You know what this Titan’s curse is, don’t
you?’
His face darkened. He made a claw over his heart and
pushed outwards – an ancient gesture for warding oﬀ evil.
‘Let us hope the prophecy does not mean what I think. Now,
goodnight, Percy. And your time will come. I’m convinced of
that. There’s no need to rush.’
He said your time the way people did when they meant
your death. I didn’t know if Chiron meant it that way, but
633
the look in his eyes made me scared to ask.
I stood at the saltwater spring, rubbing Chiron’s coin in my
hand and trying to ﬁgure out what to say to my mom. I
really wasn’t in the mood to have one more adult tell me
that doing nothing was the greatest thing I could do, but I
ﬁgured my mom deserved an update.
Finally, I took a deep breath and threw in the coin. ‘O
goddess, accept my oﬀering.’
The mist shimmered. The light from the bathroom was just
enough to make a faint rainbow.
‘Show me Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘Upper East Side,
Manhattan.’
And there in the mist was a scene I did not expect. My
mom was sitting at our kitchen table with some… guy. They
were laughing hysterically. There was a big stack of
textbooks between them. The man was, I don’t know, thirty-
something, with longish salt-and-pepper hair and a brown
jacket over a black T-shirt. He looked like an actor – like a
guy who might play an undercover cop on television.
I was too stunned to say anything, and, fortunately, my
mom and the guy were too busy laughing to notice my Iris-
message.
The guy said, ‘Sally, you’re a riot. You want some more
wine?’
‘Ah, I shouldn’t. You go ahead if you want.’
‘Actually, I’d better use your bathroom. May I?’
‘Down the hall,’ she said, trying not to laugh.
The actor dude smiled and got up and left.
‘Mom!’ I said.
She jumped so hard she almost knocked her textbooks oﬀ
the table. Finally she focused on me. ‘Percy! Oh, honey! Is
everything okay?’
‘What are you doing?’ I demanded.
She blinked. ‘Homework.’ Then she seemed to understand
the look on my face. ‘Oh, honey, that’s just Paul – um, Mr
634
Bloﬁs. He’s in my writing seminar.’
‘Mr Blowﬁsh?’
‘Bloﬁs. He’ll be back in a minute, Percy. Tell me what’s
wrong.’
She always knew when something was wrong. I told her
about Annabeth. The other stuﬀ, too, but mostly it boiled
down to Annabeth.
My mother’s eyes teared up. I could tell she was trying
hard to keep it together for my sake. ‘Oh, Percy…’
‘Yeah. So they tell me there’s nothing I can do. I guess I’ll
be coming home.’
She turned her pencil round in her ﬁngers. ‘Percy, as much
as I want you to come home –’ she sighed like she was mad
at herself – ‘as much as I want you to be safe, I want you to
understand something. You need to do whatever you think
you have to.’
I stared at her. ‘What do you mean?’
‘I mean, do you really, deep down, believe that you have
to help save her? Do you think it’s the right thing to do?
Because I know one thing about you, Percy. Your heart is
always in the right place. Listen to it.’
‘You’re… you’re telling me to go?’
My mother pursed her lips. ‘I’m telling you that… you’re
getting too old for me to tell you what to do. I’m telling you
that I’ll support you, even if what you decide to do is
dangerous. I can’t believe I’m saying this.’
‘Mom –’
The toilet ﬂushed down the hall in our apartment.
‘I don’t have much time,’ my mom said. ‘Percy, whatever
you decide, I love you. And I know you’ll do what’s best for
Annabeth.’
‘How can you be sure?’
‘Because she’d do the same for you.’
And, with that, my mother waved her hand over the mist,
and the connection dissolved, leaving me with one ﬁnal
image of her new friend Mr Blowﬁsh smiling down at her.
635
I don’t remember falling asleep, but I remember the dream.
I was back in that barren cave, the ceiling heavy and low
above me. Annabeth was kneeling under the weight of a
dark mass like a pile of boulders. She was too tired even to
cry out. Her legs trembled. Any second, I knew she would
run out of strength and the cavern ceiling would collapse on
top of her.
‘How is our mortal guest?’ a male voice boomed.
It wasn’t Kronos. Kronos’s voice was raspy and metallic,
like a knife scraped across stone. I’d heard it taunting me
many times before in my dreams. This voice was deeper
and lower, like a bass guitar. Its force made the ground
vibrate.
Luke emerged from the shadows. He ran to Annabeth,
knelt beside her, then looked back at the unseen man.
‘She’s fading. We must hurry.’
The hypocrite. Like he really cared what happened to her.
The deep voice chuckled. It belonged to someone in the
shadows, at the edge of my dream. Then a meaty hand
thrust someone forward into the light – Artemis – her hands
and feet bound in celestial bronze chains.
I gasped. Her silvery dress was torn and tattered. Her face
and arms were cut in several places, and she was bleeding
ichor, the golden blood of the gods.
‘You heard the boy,’ said the man in the shadows.
‘Decide!’
Artemis’s eyes ﬂashed with anger. I didn’t know why she
just didn’t will the chains to burst, or make herself
disappear, but she didn’t seem able to. Maybe the chains
prevented her, or some magic about this dark, horrible
place.
The goddess looked at Annabeth, and her expression
changed to concern and outrage. ‘How dare you torture a
maiden like this!’
‘She will die soon,’ Luke said. ‘You can save her.’
636
Annabeth made a weak sound of protest. My heart felt like
it was being twisted into a knot. I wanted to run to her, but I
couldn’t move.
‘Free my hands,’ Artemis said.
Luke brought out his sword, Backbiter. With one expert
strike, he broke the goddess’s handcuﬀs.
Artemis ran to Annabeth and took the burden from her
shoulders. Annabeth collapsed on the ground and lay there
shivering. Artemis staggered, trying to support the weight of
the black rocks.
The man in the shadows chuckled. ‘You are as predictable
as you were easy to beat, Artemis.’
‘You surprised me,’ the goddess said, straining under her
burden. ‘It will not happen again.’
‘Indeed it will not,’ the man said. ‘Now you are out of the
way for good! I knew you could not resist helping a young
maiden. That is, after all, your speciality, my dear.’
Artemis groaned. ‘You know nothing of mercy, you swine.’
‘On that,’ the man said, ‘we can agree. Luke, you may kill
the girl now.’
‘No!’ Artemis shouted.
Luke hesitated. ‘She – she may yet be useful, sir. Further
bait.’
‘Bah! You truly believe that?’
‘Yes, General. They will come for her. I’m sure.’
The man considered. ‘Then the dracaenae can guard her
here. Assuming she does not die from her injuries, you may
keep her alive until winter solstice. After that, if our sacriﬁce
goes as planned, her life will be meaningless. The lives of all
mortals will be meaningless.’
Luke gathered up Annabeth’s listless body and carried her
away from the goddess.
‘You will never ﬁnd the monster you seek,’ Artemis said.
‘Your plan will fail.’
‘How little you know, my young goddess,’ the man in the
shadows said. ‘Even now, your darling attendants begin
637
their quest to ﬁnd you. They shall play directly into my
hands. Now, if you’ll excuse us, we have a long journey to
make. We must greet your Hunters and make sure their
quest is… challenging.’
The man’s laughter echoed in the darkness, shaking the
ground until it seemed the whole cavern ceiling would
collapse.
I woke with a start. I was sure I’d heard a loud banging.
I looked around the cabin. It was dark outside. The salt
spring still gurgled. No other sounds but the hoot of an owl
in the woods and the distant surf on the beach. In the
moonlight, on my nightstand, was Annabeth’s New York
Yankees cap. I stared at it for a second, and then: BANG.
BANG.
Someone, or something, was pounding on my door.
I grabbed Riptide and got out of bed.
‘Hello?’ I called.
THUMP. THUMP.
I crept to the door.
I uncapped the blade, ﬂung open the door, and found
myself face to face with a black pegasus.
Whoa, boss! Its voice spoke in my mind as it clopped away
from the sword blade. I don’t wanna be a horse-ke-bob!
Its black wings spread in alarm, and the wind buﬀeted me
back a step.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, relieved but a little irritated. ‘It’s the
middle of the night!’
Blackjack huﬀed. Ain’t either, boss. It’s ﬁve in the
morning. What you still sleeping for?
‘How many times have I told you? Don’t call me boss.’
Whatever you say, boss. You’re the man. You’re my
number one.
I rubbed the sleep out of my eyes and tried not to let the
pegasus read my thoughts. That’s the problem with being
Poseidon’s son: since he created horses out of sea foam, I
638
can understand most equestrian animals, but they can
understand me, too. Sometimes, like in Blackjack’s case,
they kind of adopt me.
See, Blackjack had been a captive on board Luke’s ship
last summer, until we’d caused a little distraction that
allowed him to escape. I’d really had very little to do with it,
seriously, but Blackjack credited me with saving him.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, ‘you’re supposed to stay in the stables.’
Meh, the stables. You see Chiron staying in the stables?
‘Well… no.’
Exactly. Listen, we got another little sea friend needs your
help.
‘Again?’
Yeah. I told the hippocampi I’d come get you.
I groaned. Anytime I was anywhere near the beach, the
hippocampi would ask me to help them with their problems.
And they had a lot of problems. Beached whales, porpoises
caught in ﬁshing nets, mermaids with hangnails – they’d call
me to come underwater and help.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘I’m coming.’
You’re the best, boss.
‘And don’t call me boss!’
Blackjack whinnied softly. It might’ve been a laugh.
I looked back at my comfortable bed. My bronze shield still
hung on the wall, dented and unusable. And on my
nightstand was Annabeth’s magic Yankees cap. On an
impulse, I stuck the cap in my pocket. I guess I had a
feeling, even then, that I wasn’t coming back to my cabin
for a long, long time.
639
8    I Make A Dangerous Promise
 
Blackjack gave me a ride down the beach, and I have to
admit it was cool. Being on a ﬂying horse, skimming over
the waves at a hundred miles an hour with the wind in my
hair and the sea spray in my face – hey, it beats waterskiing
any day.
Here. Blackjack slowed and turned in a circle. Straight
down.
‘Thanks.’ I tumbled oﬀ his back and plunged into the icy
sea.
I’d got more comfortable doing stunts like that the past
couple of years. I could pretty much move however I wanted
to underwater, just by willing the ocean currents to change
around me and propel me along. I could breathe
underwater, no problem, and my clothes never got wet
unless I wanted them to.
I shot down into the darkness.
Eight, 
ten, 
twelve 
metres. 
The 
pressure 
wasn’t
uncomfortable. I’d never tried to push it – to see if there was
a limit to how deep I could dive. I knew most regular
humans 
couldn’t 
go 
past 
sixty-ﬁve 
metres 
without
crumpling like a tin can. I should’ve been blind, too, this
deep in the water at night, but I could see the heat from
living forms, and the cold of the currents. It’s hard to
describe. It wasn’t like regular seeing, but I could tell where
everything was.
As I got closer to the bottom, I saw three hippocampi –
ﬁsh-tailed horses – swimming in a circle round an
overturned boat. The hippocampi were beautiful to watch.
640
Their ﬁsh tails shimmered in rainbow colours, glowing
phosphorescent. Their manes were white, and they were
galloping through the water the way nervous horses do in a
thunderstorm. Something was upsetting them.
I got closer and saw the problem. A dark shape – some
kind of animal – was wedged halfway under the boat and
tangled in a ﬁshing net, one of those big nets they use on
trawlers to catch everything at once. I hated those things. It
was bad enough they drowned porpoises and dolphins, but
they also occasionally caught mythological animals. When
the nets got tangled, some lazy ﬁshermen would just cut
them loose and let the trapped animals die.
Apparently this poor creature had been mucking around
on the bottom of Long Island Sound and had somehow got
itself tangled in the net of this sunken ﬁshing boat. It had
tried to get out and managed to get even more hopelessly
stuck, shifting the boat in the process. Now the wreckage of
the hull, which was resting against a big rock, was teetering
and threatening to collapse on top of the tangled animal.
The hippocampi were swimming around frantically,
wanting to help but not sure how. One was trying to chew
the net, but hippocampi teeth just aren’t meant for cutting
rope. Hippocampi are really strong, but they don’t have
hands, and they’re not (shhh) all that smart.
Free it, lord! A hippocampus said when it saw me. The
others joined in, asking the same thing.
I swam in for a closer look at the tangled creature. At ﬁrst
I thought it was a young hippocampus. I’d rescued several
of them before. But then I heard a strange sound,
something that did not belong underwater:
‘Mooooooo!’
I got next to the thing and saw that it was a cow. I mean…
I’d heard of sea cows, like manatees and stuﬀ, but this
really was a cow with the back end of a serpent. The front
half was a calf – a baby, with black fur and big, sad brown
eyes and a white muzzle – and its back half was a black-
641
and-brown snaky tail with ﬁns running down the top and
bottom, like an enormous eel.
‘Whoa, little one,’ I said. ‘Where did you come from?’
The creature looked at me sadly. ‘Moooo!’
But I couldn’t understand its thoughts. I only speak horse.
We don’t know what it is, lord, one of the hippocampus
said. Many strange things are stirring.
‘Yeah,’ I murmured. ‘So I’ve heard.’
I uncapped Riptide, and the sword grew to full-length in
my hands, its bronze blade gleaming in the dark.
The cow serpent freaked out and started struggling
against the net, its eyes full of terror. ‘Whoa!’ I said. ‘I’m not
going to hurt you! Just let me cut the net.’
But the cow serpent thrashed around and got even more
tangled. The boat started to tilt, stirring up the muck on the
sea bottom and threatening to topple onto the cow serpent.
The hippocampi whinnied in a panic and thrashed in the
water, which didn’t help.
‘Okay, okay!’ I said. I put away the sword and started
speaking as calmly as I could so the hippocampi and the
cow serpent would stop panicking. I didn’t know if it was
possible to get stampeded underwater, but I didn’t really
want to ﬁnd out. ‘It’s cool. No sword. See? No sword. Calm
thoughts. Sea grass. Mama cows. Vegetarianism.’
I doubted the cow serpent understood what I was saying,
but it responded to the tone of my voice. The hippocampi
were still skittish, but they stopped swirling around me quite
so fast.
Free it, lord! they pleaded.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘I got that part. I’m thinking.’
But how could I free the cow serpent when she (I decided
it was probably a ‘she’) panicked at the sight of a blade? It
was like she’d seen swords before and knew how dangerous
they were.
‘All right,’ I told the hippocampi. ‘I need all of you to push
exactly the way I tell you.’
642
First we started with the boat. It wasn’t easy but, with the
strength of three horsepower, we managed to shift the
wreckage so it was no longer threatening to collapse on the
baby cow serpent. Then I went to work on the net,
untangling it section by section, getting lead weights and
ﬁshing hooks straightened out, yanking out knots round the
cow serpent’s hooves. It took forever – I mean, it was worse
than the time I’d had to untangle all my video game
controller wires. The whole time, I kept talking to the cow
ﬁsh, telling her everything was okay while she mooed and
moaned.
‘It’s okay, Bessie,’ I said. Don’t ask me why I started
calling her that. It just seemed like a good cow name. ‘Good
cow. Nice cow.’
Finally, the net came oﬀ and the cow serpent zipped
through the water and did a happy somersault.
The hippocampi whinnied with joy. Thank you, lord!
‘Moooo!’ The cow serpent nuzzled me and gave me the
big brown eyes.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘That’s okay. Nice cow. Well… stay out of
trouble.’
Which reminded me, I’d been underwater how long? An
hour, at least. I had to get back to my cabin before Argus or
the harpies discovered I was breaking curfew.
I shot to the surface and broke through. Immediately,
Blackjack zoomed down and let me catch hold of his neck.
He lifted me into the air and took me back towards the
shore.
Success, boss?
‘Yeah. We rescued a baby… something or other. Took
forever. Almost got stampeded.’
Good deeds are always dangerous, boss. You saved my
sorry mane, didn’t you?
I couldn’t help thinking about Annabeth in my dream,
crumpled and lifeless in Luke’s arms. Here I was rescuing
baby monsters, but I couldn’t save my friend.
643
As Blackjack ﬂew back towards my cabin, I happened to
glance at the dining pavilion. I saw a ﬁgure – a boy hunkered
down behind a Greek column, like he was hiding from
someone.
It was Nico, but it wasn’t even dawn yet. Nowhere near
time for breakfast. What was he doing up there?
I hesitated. The last thing I wanted was more time for Nico
to tell me about his Mythomagic game. But something was
wrong. I could tell by the way he was crouching.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, ‘set me down over there, will you?
Behind that column.’
I almost blew it.
I was coming up the steps behind Nico. He didn’t see me
at all. He was behind a column, peeking round the corner,
all his attention focused on the dining area. I was two
metres away from him, and I was about to say What are you
doing, really loud, when it occurred to me that he was
pulling a Grover: he was spying on the Hunters.
There were voices – two girls talking at one of the dining
tables. At this ungodly hour of the morning? Well, unless
you’re the goddess of dawn, I guess.
I took Annabeth’s cap out of my pocket and put it on.
I didn’t feel any diﬀerent, but when I raised my arms I
couldn’t see them. I was invisible.
I crept up to Nico and sneaked round him. I couldn’t see
the girls very well in the dark, but I knew their voices: Zoë
and Bianca. It sounded like they were arguing.
‘It cannot be cured,’ Zoë was saying. ‘Not quickly, at any
rate.’
‘But how did it happen?’ Bianca asked.
‘A foolish prank,’ Zoë growled. ‘Those Stoll boys from the
Hermes cabin. Centaur blood is like acid. Everyone knows
that. They sprayed the inside of that Artemis Hunting Tour T-
shirt with it.’
‘That’s terrible!’
644
‘She will live,’ Zoë said. ‘But she’ll be bedridden for weeks
with horrible hives. There is no way she can go. It’s up to
me… and thee.’
‘But the prophecy,’ Bianca said. ‘If Phoebe can’t go, we
only have four. We’ll have to pick another.’
‘There is no time,’ Zoë said. ‘We must leave at ﬁrst light.
That’s immediately. Besides, the prophecy said we would
lose one.’
‘In the land without rain,’ Bianca said, ‘but that can’t be
here.’
‘It might be,’ Zoë said, though she didn’t sound
convinced. ‘The camp has magic borders. Nothing, not even
weather, is allowed in without permission. It could be a land
without rain.’
‘But –’
‘Bianca, hear me.’ Zoë’s voice was strained. ‘I… I can’t
explain, but I have a sense that we should not pick someone
else. It would be too dangerous. They would meet an end
worse than Phoebe’s. I don’t want Chiron choosing a camper
as our ﬁfth companion. And… I don’t want to risk another
Hunter.’
Bianca was silent. ‘You should tell Thalia the rest of your
dream.’
‘No. It would not help.’
‘But if your suspicions are correct, about the General –’
‘I have thy word not to talk about that,’ Zoë said. She
sounded really anguished. ‘We will ﬁnd out soon enough.
Now come. Dawn is breaking.’
Nico scooted out of their way. He was faster than me.
As the girls sprinted down the steps, Zoë almost ran into
me. She froze, her eyes narrowing. Her hand crept towards
her bow, but then Bianca said, ‘The lights of the Big House
are on. Hurry!’
And Zoë followed her out of the pavilion.
645
I could tell what Nico was thinking. He took a deep breath
and was about to run after his sister when I took oﬀ the
invisibility cap and said, ‘Wait.’
He almost slipped on the icy steps as he spun round to
ﬁnd me. ‘Where did you come from?’
‘I’ve been here the whole time. Invisible.’
He mouthed the word invisible. ‘Wow. Cool.’
‘How did you know Zoë and your sister were here?’
He blushed. ‘I heard them walk by the Hermes cabin. I
don’t… I don’t sleep too well at camp. So I heard footsteps,
and them whispering. And so I kind of followed.’
‘And now you’re thinking about following them on the
quest,’ I guessed.
‘How did you know that?’
‘Because if it was my sister, I’d probably be thinking the
same thing. But you can’t.’
He looked deﬁant. ‘Because I’m too young?’
‘Because they won’t let you. They’ll catch you and send
you back here. And… yeah, because you’re too young. You
remember the manticore? There will be lots more like that.
More dangerous. Some of the heroes will die.’
His shoulders sagged. He shifted from foot to foot. ‘Maybe
you’re right. But, but you can go for me.’
‘Say what?’
‘You can turn invisible. You can go!’
‘The Hunters don’t like boys,’ I reminded him. ‘If they ﬁnd
out –’
‘Don’t let them ﬁnd out. Follow them invisibly. Keep an eye
on my sister! You have to. Please?’
‘Nico –’
‘You’re planning to go anyway, aren’t you?’
I wanted to say no. But he looked me in the eyes, and I
somehow couldn’t lie to him.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘I have to ﬁnd Annabeth. I have to help,
even if they don’t want me to.’
646
‘I won’t tell on you,’ he said. ‘But you have to promise to
keep my sister safe.’
‘I… that’s a big thing to promise, Nico, on a trip like this.
Besides, she’s got Zoë, Grover and Thalia –’
‘Promise,’ he insisted.
‘I’ll do my best. I promise that.’
‘Get going, then!’ he said. ‘Good luck!’
It was crazy. I wasn’t packed. I had nothing but the cap
and the sword and the clothes I was wearing. I was
supposed to be going home to Manhattan this morning. ‘Tell
Chiron –’
‘I’ll make something up.’ Nico smiled crookedly. ‘I’m good
at that. Go on!’
I ran, putting on Annabeth’s cap. As the sun came up, I
turned invisible. I hit the top of Half-Blood Hill in time to see
the camp’s van disappearing down the farm road, probably
Argus taking the quest group into the city. After that they
would be on their own.
I felt a twinge of guilt, and stupidity, too. How was I
supposed to keep up with them. Run?
Then I heard the beating of huge wings. Blackjack landed
next to me. He began casually nuzzling a few tufts of grass
that stuck through the ice.
If I was guessing, boss, I’d say you need a getaway horse.
You interested?
A lump of gratitude stuck in my throat, but I managed to
say, ‘Yeah. Let’s ﬂy.’
647
9    I Learn How To Grow Zombies
 
The thing about ﬂying on a pegasus during the daytime is
that, if you’re not careful, you can cause a serious traﬃc
accident on the Long Island Expressway. I had to keep
Blackjack up in the clouds, which were fortunately pretty
low in the winter. We darted around, trying to keep the
white Camp Half-Blood van in sight. And if it was cold on the
ground, it was seriously cold in the air, with icy rain stinging
my skin.
I was wishing I’d brought some of that Camp Half-Blood
orange thermal underwear they sold in the camp store but,
after the story about Phoebe and the centaur-blood T-shirt, I
wasn’t sure I trusted their products any more.
We lost the van twice, but I had a pretty good sense that
they would go into Manhattan ﬁrst, so it wasn’t too diﬃcult
to pick up their trail again.
Traﬃc was bad with the holidays and all. It was mid
morning before they got into the city. I landed Blackjack
near the top of the Chrysler Building and watched the white
camp van, thinking it would pull into the Greyhound station,
but it just kept driving.
‘Where’s Argus taking them?’ I muttered.
Oh, Argus ain’t driving, boss, Blackjack told me. That girl
is.
‘Which girl?’
The Hunter girl. With the silver crown thing in her hair.
‘Zoë?’
That’s the one. Hey, look! There’s a doughnut shop. Can
we hit the drive-thru?
648
I tried explaining to Blackjack that taking a ﬂying horse
through the drive-thru would give every cop in the doughnut
shop a heart attack, but he didn’t seem to get it. Meanwhile,
the van kept snaking its way towards the Lincoln Tunnel. It
had never even occurred to me that Zoë could drive. I
mean, she didn’t look sixteen. Then again, she was
immortal. I wondered if she had a New York licence and, if
so, what her birth date said.
‘Well,’ I said. ‘Let’s get after them.’
We were about to leap oﬀ the Chrysler Building when
Blackjack whinnied in alarm and almost threw me.
Something was curling around my leg like a snake. I reached
for my sword, but when I looked down, there was no snake.
Vines – grapevines – had sprouted from the cracks between
the stones of the building. They were wrapping round
Blackjack’s legs, lashing down my ankles so we couldn’t
move.
‘Going somewhere?’ Mr D asked.
He was leaning against the building with his feet levitating
in the air, his leopard-skin warm-up suit and black hair
whipping around in the wind.
God alert! Blackjack yelled. It’s the wine dude!
Mr D sighed in exasperation. ‘The next person, or horse,
who calls me “the wine dude” will end up in a bottle of
Merlot!’
‘Mr D.’ I tried to keep my voice calm as the grapevines
continued to wrap round my legs. ‘What do you want?’
‘Oh, what do I want? You thought, perhaps, that the
immortal, all-powerful director of camp would not notice you
leaving without permission?’
‘Well… maybe.’
‘I should throw you oﬀ this building, minus the ﬂying
horse, and see how heroic you sound on the way down.’
I balled my ﬁsts. I knew I should keep my mouth shut, but
Mr D was about to kill me or haul me back to camp in
649
shame, and I couldn’t stand either idea. ‘Why do you hate
me so much? What did I ever do to you?’
Purple ﬂames ﬂickered in his eyes. ‘You’re a hero, boy. I
need no other reason.’
‘I have to go on this quest! I’ve got to help my friends.
That’s something you wouldn’t understand!’
Um, boss, Blackjack said nervously. Seeing as how we’re
wrapped in vines three hundred metres in the air, you might
want to talk nice.
The grapevines coiled tighter round me. Below us, the
white van was getting further and further away. Soon it
would be out of sight.
‘Did I ever tell you about Ariadne?’ Mr D asked. ‘Beautiful
young princess of Crete? She liked helping her friends, too.
In fact, she helped a young hero named Theseus, also a son
of Poseidon. She gave him a ball of magical thread that let
him ﬁnd his way out of the Labyrinth. And do you know how
Theseus rewarded her?’
The answer I wanted to give was I don’t care! But I didn’t
ﬁgure that would make Mr D ﬁnish his story any faster.
‘They got married,’ I said. ‘Happily ever after. The end.’
Mr D sneered. ‘Not quite. Theseus said he would marry
her. He took her aboard his ship and sailed for Athens.
Halfway back, on a little island called Naxos, he – what’s the
word you mortals use today? – he dumped her. I found her
there, you know. Alone. Heartbroken. Crying her eyes out.
She had given up everything, left everything she knew
behind, to help a dashing young hero who tossed her away
like a broken sandal.’
‘That’s wrong,’ I said. ‘But that was thousands of years
ago. What’s that got to do with me?’
Mr D regarded me coldly. ‘I fell in love with Ariadne, boy. I
healed her broken heart. And, when she died, I made her
my immortal wife in Olympus. She waits for me even now. I
shall go back to her when I am done with this infernal
century of punishment at your ridiculous camp.’
650
I stared at him. ‘You’re… you’re married? But I thought
you got in trouble for chasing a wood nymph –’
‘My point is you heroes never change. You accuse us gods
of being vain. You should look at yourselves. You take what
you want, use whoever you have to, and then you betray
everyone around you. So you’ll excuse me if I have no love
for heroes. They are a selﬁsh, ungrateful lot. Ask Ariadne. Or
Medea. For that matter, ask Zoë Nightshade.’
‘What do you mean, ask Zoë?’
He waved his hand dismissively. ‘Go. Follow your silly
friends.’
The vines uncurled from round my legs.
I blinked in disbelief. ‘You’re… you’re letting me go? Just
like that?’
‘The prophecy says at least two of you will die. Perhaps I’ll
get lucky and you’ll be one of them. But mark my words,
Son of Poseidon, live or die, you will prove no better than
the other heroes.’
With that, Dionysus snapped his ﬁngers. His image folded
up like a paper display. There was a pop and he was gone,
leaving a faint scent of grapes that was quickly blown away
by the wind.
Too close, Blackjack said.
I nodded, though I almost would have been less worried if
Mr D had hauled me back to camp. The fact that he’d let me
go meant he really believed we stood a fair chance of
crashing and burning on this quest.
‘Come on, Blackjack,’ I said, trying to sound upbeat. ‘I’ll
buy you some doughnuts in New Jersey.’
As it turned out, I didn’t buy Blackjack doughnuts in New
Jersey. Zoë drove south like a crazy person, and we were
into Maryland before she ﬁnally pulled over at a service
station. Blackjack nearly tumbled out of the sky, he was so
tired.
651
I’ll be okay, boss, he panted. Just… just catching my
breath.
‘Stay here,’ I told him. ‘I’m going to scout.’
‘Stay here’ I can handle. I can do that.
I put on my cap of invisibility and walked over to the
convenience store. It was diﬃcult not to sneak. I had to
keep reminding myself that nobody could see me. It was
hard, too, because I had to remember to get out of people’s
way so they wouldn’t slam into me.
I thought I’d go inside and warm up, maybe get a cup of
hot chocolate or something. I had a little change in my
pocket. I could leave it on the counter. I was wondering if
the cup would turn invisible when I picked it up, or if I’d
have to deal with a ﬂoating hot chocolate problem, when my
whole plan was ruined by Zoë, Thalia, Bianca and Grover all
coming out of the store.
‘Grover, are you sure?’ Thalia was saying.
‘Well… pretty sure. Ninety-nine per cent. Okay, eighty-ﬁve
per cent.’
‘And you did this with acorns?’ Bianca asked, like she
couldn’t believe it.
Grover looked oﬀended. ‘It’s a time-honoured tracking
spell. I mean, I’m pretty sure I did it right.’
‘D.C. is about sixty miles from here,’ Bianca said. ‘Nico
and I…’ She frowned. ‘We used to lived there. That’s… that’s
strange. I’d forgotten.’
‘I dislike this,’ Zoë said. ‘We should go straight west. The
prophecy said west.’
‘Oh, like your tracking skills are better?’ Thalia growled.
Zoë stepped towards her. ‘You challenge my skills, you
scullion? You know nothing of being a Hunter!’
‘Oh, scullion? You’re calling me a scullion? What the heck
is a scullion?’
‘Whoa, you two,’ Grover said nervously. ‘Come on. Not
again!’
‘Grover’s right,’ Bianca said. ‘D.C. is our best bet.’
652
Zoë didn’t look convinced, but she nodded reluctantly.
‘Very well. Let us keep moving.’
‘You’re going to get us arrested, driving,’ Thalia grumbled.
‘I look closer to sixteen than you do.’
‘Perhaps,’ Zoë snapped. ‘But I have been driving since
automobiles were invented. Let us go.’
As Blackjack and I continued south, following the van, I
wondered whether Zoë had been kidding. I didn’t know
exactly when cars were invented, but I ﬁgured that was like
prehistoric times – back when people watched black-and-
white TV and hunted dinosaurs.
How old was Zoë? And what had Mr D been talking about?
What bad experience had she had with heroes?
As we got closer to Washington, Blackjack started slowing
down and dropping altitude. He was breathing heavily.
‘You okay?’ I asked him.
Fine, boss. I could… I could take on an army.
‘You don’t sound so good.’ And suddenly I felt guilty,
because I’d been running the pegasus for half a day,
nonstop, trying to keep up with highway traﬃc. Even for a
ﬂying horse, that had to be rough.
Don’t worry about me, boss! I’m a tough one.
I ﬁgured he was right, but I also ﬁgured Blackjack would
run himself into the ground before he complained, and I
didn’t want that.
Fortunately, the van started to slow down. It crossed the
Potomac River into central Washington. I started thinking
about air patrols and missiles and stuﬀ like that. I didn’t
know exactly how all those defences worked, and wasn’t
sure if pegasi even showed up on your typical military radar,
but I didn’t want to ﬁnd out by getting shot out of the sky.
‘Set me down there,’ I told Blackjack. ‘That’s close
enough.’
Blackjack was so tired he didn’t complain. He dropped
towards the Washington Monument and set me on the
653
grass.
The van was only a few blocks away. Zoë had parked at
the kerb.
I looked at Blackjack. ‘I want you to go back to camp. Get
some rest. Graze. I’ll be ﬁne.’
Blackjack cocked his head sceptically. You sure, boss?
‘You’ve done enough already,’ I said. ‘I’ll be ﬁne. And
thanks a ton.’
A ton of hay, maybe, Blackjack mused. That sounds good.
All right, but be careful, boss. I got a feeling they didn’t
come here to meet anything friendly and handsome like me.
I promised to be careful. Then Blackjack took oﬀ, circling
twice round the monument before disappearing into the
clouds.
I looked over at the white van. Everybody was getting out.
Grover pointed towards one of the big buildings lining the
mall. Thalia nodded, and the four of them trudged oﬀ into
the cold wind.
I started to follow. But then I froze.
A block away, the door of a black sedan opened. A man
with a grey military haircut got out. He was wearing dark
shades and a black overcoat. Now, maybe in Washington,
you’d expected guys like that to be everywhere. But it
dawned on me that I’d seen this same car a couple of times
on the highway, going south. It had been following the van.
The guy took out his cell phone and said something into it.
Then he looked around, like he was making sure the coast
was clear, and started walking down the mall in the
direction of my friends.
The worst of it was: when he turned towards me, I
recognized his face. It was Dr Thorn, the manticore from
Westover Hall.
Invisibility cap on, I followed Thorn from a distance. My
heart was pounding. If he had survived that fall from the
654
cliﬀ, then Annabeth must have too. My dreams had been
right. She was alive and being held prisoner.
Thorn kept well back from my friends, careful not to be
seen.
Finally, Grover stopped in front of a big building that said
AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM. The Smithsonian! I’d been here a
million years ago with my mom, but everything had looked
so much bigger then.
Thalia checked the door. It was open, but there weren’t
many people going in. Too cold, and it was school holidays.
They slipped inside.
Dr Thorn hesitated. I wasn’t sure why, but he didn’t go
into the museum. He turned and headed across the mall. I
made a split-second decision and followed him.
Thorn crossed the street and climbed the steps of the
Museum of Natural History. There was a big sign on the
door. At ﬁrst I thought it said CLOSED FOR PIRATE EVENT.
Then I realized PIRATE must be PRIVATE.
I followed Dr Thorn inside, through a huge chamber full of
mastodons and dinosaur skeletons. There were voices up
ahead, coming from behind a set of closed doors. Two
guards stood outside. They opened the doors for Thorn, and
I had to sprint to get inside before they closed them again.
Inside, what I saw was so terrible I almost gasped out
loud, which probably would’ve got me killed.
I was in a huge round room with a balcony ringing the
second level. At least a dozen mortal guards stood on the
balcony, plus two monsters – reptilian women with double-
snake trunks instead of legs. I’d seen them before.
Annabeth had called them Scythian dracaenae.
But that wasn’t the worse of it. Standing between the
snake women – I could swear he was looking straight down
at me – was my old enemy Luke. He looked terrible. His skin
was pale and his blond hair looked almost grey, as if he’d
aged ten years in just a few months. The angry light in his
eyes was still there, and so was the scar down the side of
655
his face, where a dragon had once scratched him. But the
scar was now ugly red, as though it had recently been
reopened.
Next to him, sitting down so that the shadows covered
him, was another man. All I could see were his knuckles on
the gilded arms of the chair, like a throne.
‘Well?’ asked the man in the chair. His voice was just like
the one I’d heard in my dream – not as creepy as Kronos’s,
but deeper and stronger, like the earth itself was talking. It
ﬁlled the whole room even though he wasn’t yelling.
Dr Thorn took oﬀ his shades. His two-coloured eyes, brown
and blue, glittered with excitement. He made a stiﬀ bow,
then spoke in his weird French accent: ‘They are here,
General.’
‘I know that, you fool,’ boomed the man. ‘But where?’
‘In the rocket museum.’
‘The Air and Space Museum,’ Luke corrected irritably.
Dr Thorn glared at Luke. ‘As you say, sir.’
I got the feeling Thorn would just as soon impale Luke with
one of his spikes as call him sir.
‘How many?’ Luke asked.
Thorn pretended not to hear.
‘How many?’ the General demanded.
‘Four, General,’ Thorn said. ‘The satyr, Grover Underwood.
And the girl with the spiky black hair and the – how do you
say – punk clothes, and the horrible shield.’
‘Thalia,’ Luke said.
‘And two other girls – Hunters. One wears a silver circlet.’
‘That one I know,’ the General growled.
Everyone in the room shifted uncomfortably.
‘Let me take them,’ Luke said to the General. ‘We have
more than enough –’
‘Patience,’ the General said. ‘They’ll have their hands full
already. I’ve sent a little playmate to keep them occupied.’
‘But –’
‘We cannot risk you, my boy.’
656
‘Yes, boy,’ Dr Thorn said with a cruel smile. ‘You are much
too fragile to risk. Let me ﬁnish them oﬀ.’
‘No.’ The General rose from his chair, and I got my ﬁrst
look at him.
He was tall and muscular, with light brown skin and
slicked-back dark hair. He wore an expensive brown silk suit
like the guys on Wall Street wear, but you’d never mistake
this dude for a broker. He had a brutal face, huge shoulders,
and hands that could snap a ﬂagpole in half. His eyes were
like stone. I felt as if I were looking at a living statue. It was
amazing he could even move.
‘You have already failed me, Thorn,’ he said.
‘But, General –’
‘No excuses!’
Thorn ﬂinched. I’d thought Thorn was scary when I ﬁrst
saw him in his black uniform at the military academy. But
now, standing before the General, Thorn looked like a silly
wannabe soldier. The General was the real deal. He didn’t
need a uniform. He was a born commander.
‘I should throw you into the pits of Tartarus for your
incompetence,’ the General said. ‘I send you to capture a
child of the three elder gods, and you bring me a scrawny
daughter of Athena.’
‘But you promised me revenge!’ Thorn protested. ‘A
command of my own!’
‘I am Lord Kronos’s senior commander,’ the General said.
‘And I will choose lieutenants who get me results! It was
only thanks to Luke that we salvaged our plan at all. Now
get out of my sight, Thorn, until I ﬁnd some other menial
task for you.’
Thorn’s face turned purple with rage. I thought he was
going to start frothing at the mouth or shooting spines, but
he just bowed awkwardly and left the room.
‘Now, my boy.’ The General turned to Luke. ‘The ﬁrst thing
we must do is isolate the half-blood Thalia. The monster we
seek will then come to her.’
657
‘The Hunters will be diﬃcult to dispose of,’ Luke said. ‘Zoë
Nightshade –’
‘Do not speak her name!’
Luke swallowed. ‘S-sorry, General. I just –’
The General silenced him with a wave of his hand. ‘Let me
show you, my boy, how we will bring the Hunters down.’
He pointed to a guard on the ground level. ‘Do you have
the teeth?’
The guy stumbled forward with a ceramic pot. ‘Yes,
General!’
‘Plant them,’ he said.
In the centre of the room was a big circle of dirt, where I
guess a dinosaur exhibit was supposed to go. I watched
nervously as the guard took sharp white teeth out of the pot
and pushed them into the soil. He smoothed them over
while the General smiled coldly.
The guard stepped back from the dirt and wiped his
hands. ‘Ready, General!’
‘Excellent! Water them, and we will let them scent their
prey.’
The guard picked up a little tin watering can with daisies
painted on it, which was kind of bizarre, because what he
poured out wasn’t water. It was dark red liquid, and I got the
feeling it wasn’t Hawaiian Punch.
The soil began to bubble.
‘Soon,’ the General said, ‘I will show you, Luke, soldiers
that will make your army from that little boat look
insigniﬁcant.’
Luke clenched his ﬁsts. ‘I’ve spent a year training my
forces! When the Princess Andromeda arrives at the
mountain, they’ll be the best –’
‘Ha!’ the General said. ‘I don’t deny your troops will make
a ﬁne honour guard for Lord Kronos. And you, of course, will
have a role to play –’
I thought Luke turned paler when the General said that.
658
‘– but under my leadership, the forces of Lord Kronos will
increase a hundredfold. We will be unstoppable. Behold, my
ultimate killing machines.’
The soil erupted. I stepped back nervously.
In each spot where a tooth had been planted, a creature
was struggling out of the dirt. The ﬁrst of them said:
‘Mew?’
It was a kitten. A little orange tabby with stripes like a
tiger. Then another appeared, until there were a dozen,
rolling around and playing in the dirt.
Everyone stared at them in disbelief. The General roared,
‘What is this? Cute cuddly kittens? Where did you ﬁnd those
teeth?’
The guard who’d brought the teeth cowered in fear. ‘From
the exhibit, sir! Just like you said. The saber-toothed tiger –’
‘No, you idiot! I said the tyrannosaurus! Gather up those…
those infernal fuzzy little beasts and take them outside. And
never let me see your face again.’
The terriﬁed guard dropped his watering can. He gathered
up the kittens and scampered out of the room.
‘You!’ The General pointed to another guard. ‘Get me the
right teeth. NOW!’
The new guard ran oﬀ to carry out his orders.
‘Imbeciles,’ muttered the General.
‘This is why I don’t use mortals,’ Luke said. ‘They are
unreliable.’
‘They are weak-minded, easily bought and violent,’ the
General said. ‘I love them.’
A minute later, the guard hustled into the room with his
hands full of large pointy teeth.
‘Excellent,’ the General said. He climbed onto the balcony
railing and jumped down, six metres.
Where he landed, the marble ﬂoor cracked under his
leather shoes. He stood, wincing, and rubbed his shoulders.
‘Curse my stiﬀ neck.’
‘Another hot pad, sir?’ a guard asked. ‘More Tylenol?’
659
‘No! It will pass.’ The General brushed oﬀ his silk suit, then
snatched up the teeth. ‘I shall do this myself.’
He held up one of the teeth and smiled. ‘Dinosaur teeth –
ha! Those foolish mortals don’t even know when they have
dragon teeth in their possession. And not just any dragon
teeth. These come from the ancient Sybaris herself! They
shall do nicely.’
He planted them in the dirt, twelve in all. Then he scooped
up the watering can. He sprinkled the soil with red liquid,
tossed the can away, and held his arms out wide. ‘Rise!’
The dirt trembled. A single, skeletal hand shot out of the
ground, grasping at the air.
The General looked up at the balcony. ‘Quickly, do you
have the scent?’
‘Yesssss, lord,’ one of the snake ladies said. She took out a
sash of silvery fabric, like the kind the Hunters wore.
‘Excellent,’ the General said. ‘Once my warriors catch its
scent, they will pursue its owner relentlessly. Nothing can
stop them, no weapons known to half-blood or Hunter. They
will tear the Hunters and their allies to shreds. Toss it here!’
As he said that, skeletons erupted from the ground. There
were twelve of them, one for each tooth the General had
planted. They were nothing like Halloween skeletons, or the
kind you might see in cheesy movies. These were growing
ﬂesh as I watched, turning into men, but men with dull grey
skin, yellow eyes and modern clothes – skintight grey vests,
camo trousers and combat boots. If you didn’t look too
closely, you could almost believe they were human, but
their ﬂesh was transparent and their bones shimmered
underneath, like X-ray images.
One of them looked straight at me, regarding me coldly,
and I knew that no cap of invisibility would fool it.
The snake lady released the scarf and it ﬂuttered down
towards the General’s hand. As soon as he gave it to the
warriors, they would hunt Zoë and the other Hunters until
they were extinct.
660
I didn’t have time to think. I ran and jumped with all my
might, ploughing into the warriors and snatching the scarf
out of the air.
‘What’s this?’ bellowed the General.
I landed at the feet of a skeleton warrior, who hissed.
‘An intruder,’ the General growled. ‘One cloaked in
darkness. Seal the doors!’
‘It’s Percy Jackson!’ Luke yelled. ‘It has to be.’
I sprinted for the exit, but heard a ripping sound and
realized the skeleton warrior had taken a chunk out of my
sleeve. When I glanced back, he was holding the fabric up to
his nose, sniﬃng the scent, handing it around to his friends.
I wanted to scream but I couldn’t. I squeezed through the
door just as the guards slammed it shut behind me.
And then I ran.
661
10    I Break A Few Rocket Ships
 
I tore across the mall, not daring to look behind me. I burst
into the Air and Space Museum and took oﬀ my invisibility
cap once I was through the admissions area.
The main part of the museum was one huge room with
rockets and aeroplanes hanging from the ceiling. Three
levels of balconies curled round, so you could look at the
exhibits from all diﬀerent heights. The place wasn’t
crowded, just a few families and a couple of tour groups of
kids, probably doing one of those holiday school trips. I
wanted to yell at them all to leave, but I ﬁgured that would
only get me arrested. I had to ﬁnd Thalia and Grover and
the Hunters. Any minute, the skeleton dudes were going to
invade the museum, and I didn’t think they would settle for
an audio tour.
I ran into Thalia – literally. I was barrelling up the ramp to
the top-ﬂoor balcony and slammed into her, knocking her
into an Apollo space capsule.
Grover yelped in surprise.
Before I could regain my balance, Zoë and Bianca had
arrows notched, aimed at my chest. Their bows had just
appeared out of nowhere.
When Zoë realized who I was, she didn’t seem anxious to
lower her bow. ‘You! How dare you show thy face here?’
‘Percy!’ Grover said. ‘Thank goodness.’
Zoë glared at him, and he blushed. ‘I mean, um, gosh.
You’re not supposed to be here!’
‘Luke,’ I said, trying to catch my breath. ‘He’s here.’
662
The anger in Thalia’s eyes immediately melted. She put
her hand on her silver bracelet. ‘Where?’
I told them about the Natural History Museum, Dr Thorn,
Luke and the General.
‘The General is here?’ Zoë looked stunned. ‘That is
impossible! You lie.’
‘Why would I lie? Look, there’s no time. Skeleton warriors
–’
‘What?’ Thalia demanded. ‘How many?’
‘Twelve,’ I said. ‘And that’s not all. That guy, the General,
he said he was sending something, a “playmate”, to distract
you over here. A monster.’
Thalia and Grover exchanged looks.
‘We were following Artemis’s trail,’ Grover said. ‘I was
pretty sure it led here. Some powerful monster scent… She
must’ve stopped here looking for the mystery monster. But
we haven’t found anything yet.’
‘Zoë,’ Bianca said nervously, ‘if it is the General –’
‘It cannot be!’ Zoë snapped. ‘Percy must have seen an
Iris-message or some other illusion.’
‘Illusions don’t crack marble ﬂoors,’ I told her.
Zoë took a deep breath, trying to calm herself. I didn’t
know why she was taking it so personally, or how she knew
this General guy, but I ﬁgured now wasn’t the time to ask.
‘If Percy is telling the truth about the skeleton warriors,’
she said, ‘we have no time to argue. They are the worst, the
most horrible… We must leave now.’
‘Good idea,’ I said.
‘I was not including thee, boy,’ Zoë said. ‘You are not part
of this quest.’
‘Hey, I’m trying to save your lives!’
‘You shouldn’t have come, Percy,’ Thalia said grimly. ‘But
you’re here now. Come on. Let’s get back to the van.’
‘That is not thy decision!’ Zoë snapped.
Thalia scowled at her. ‘You’re not the boss here, Zoë. I
don’t care how old you are! You’re still a conceited little
663
brat!’
‘You never had any wisdom when it came to boys,’ Zoë
growled. ‘You never could leave them behind!’
Thalia looked like she was about to hit Zoë. Then
everyone froze. I heard a growl so loud I thought one of the
rocket engines was starting up.
Below us, a few adults screamed. A little kid’s voice
screeched with delight: ‘Kitty!’
Something enormous bounded up the ramp. It was the
size of a pick-up truck, with silver claws and golden
glittering fur. I’d seen this monster once before. Two years
ago, I’d glimpsed it brieﬂy from a train. Now, up close and
personal, it looked even bigger.
‘The Nemean Lion,’ Thalia said. ‘Don’t move.’
The lion roared so loudly he parted my hair. His fangs
gleamed like stainless steel.
‘Separate on my mark,’ Zoë said. ‘Try to keep it
distracted.’
‘Until when?’ Grover asked.
‘Until I think of a way to kill it. Go!’
I uncapped Riptide and rolled to the left. Arrows whistled
past me, and Grover played a sharp tweet-tweet cadence on
his reed pipes. I turned and saw Zoë and Bianca climbing
the Apollo capsule. They were ﬁring arrows, one after
another, all shattering harmlessly against the lion’s metallic
fur. The lion swiped the capsule and tipped it on its side,
spilling the Hunters oﬀ the back. Grover played a frantic,
horrible tune, and the lion turned towards him, but Thalia
stepped into its path, holding up Aegis, and the lion
recoiled. ‘ROOOAAAR!’
‘Hi-yah!’ Thalia said. ‘Back!’
The lion growled and clawed the air, but it retreated as if
the shield were a blazing ﬁre.
For a second, I thought Thalia had it under control. Then I
saw the lion crouching, its leg muscles tensing. I’d seen
664
enough cat ﬁghts in the alleys around my apartment in New
York. I knew the lion was going to pounce.
‘Hey!’ I yelled. I don’t know what I was thinking, but I
charged the beast. I just wanted to get it away from my
friends. I slashed with Riptide, a good strike to the ﬂank that
should’ve cut the monster into Meow Mix, but the blade just
clanged against its fur in a burst of sparks.
The lion raked me with its claws, ripping oﬀ a chunk of my
coat. I backed against the railing. It sprang at me, half a ton
of monster, and I had no choice but to turn and jump.
I landed on the wing of an old-fashioned silver aeroplane,
which pitched and almost spilled me to the ﬂoor, three
stories below.
An arrow whizzed past my head. The lion jumped onto the
aeroplane, and the cords holding it began to groan.
The lion swiped at me, and I dropped onto the next
exhibit, a weird-looking spacecraft with blades like a
helicopter. I looked up and saw the lion roar – inside its
maw, a pink tongue and throat.
Its mouth, I thought. Its fur was completely invulnerable,
but if I could strike it in the mouth… The only problem was
the monster moved too quickly. Between its claws and
fangs, I couldn’t get close without getting sliced to pieces.
‘Zoë!’ I shouted. ‘Target the mouth!’
The monster lunged. An arrow zipped past it, missing
completely, and I dropped from the spaceship onto the top
of a ﬂoor exhibit, a huge model of the earth. I slid down
Russia and dropped oﬀ the equator.
The Nemean Lion growled and steadied itself on the
spacecraft, but its weight was too much. One of the cords
snapped. As the display swung down like a pendulum, the
lion leaped oﬀ onto the model earth’s North Pole.
‘Grover!’ I yelled. ‘Clear the area!’
Groups of kids were running around screaming. Grover
tried to corral them away from the monster just as the other
cord on the spaceship snapped and the exhibit crashed to
665
the ﬂoor. Thalia dropped oﬀ the second-ﬂoor railing and
landed across from me, on the other side of the globe. The
lion regarded us both, trying to decide which of us to kill
ﬁrst.
Zoë and Bianca were above us, bows ready, but they kept
having to move around to get a good angle.
‘No clear shot!’ Zoë yelled. ‘Get it to open its mouth
more!’
The lion snarled from the top of the globe.
I looked around. Options. I needed…
The gift shop. I had a vague memory from my trip here as
a little kid. Something I’d made my mom buy me, and I’d
regretted it. If they still sold that stuﬀ…
‘Thalia,’ I said, ‘keep it occupied.’
She nodded grimly.
‘Hi-yah!’ She pointed her spear and a spidery arc of blue
electricity shot out, zapping the lion in the tail.
‘ROOOOOOOAR!’ The lion turned and pounced. Thalia
rolled out of its way, holding up Aegis to keep the monster
at bay, and I ran for the gift shop.
‘This is no time for souvenirs, boy!’ Zoë yelled.
I dashed into the shop, knocking over rows of T-shirts,
jumping over tables full of glow-in-the-dark planets and
space ooze. The sales lady didn’t protest. She was too busy
cowering behind her cash register.
There! On the far wall – glittery silver packets. Whole
racks of them. I scooped up every kind I could ﬁnd and ran
out of the shop with an armful.
Zoë and Bianca were still showering arrows on the
monster, but it was no good. The lion seemed to know
better than to open its mouth too much. It snapped at
Thalia, slashing with its claws. It even kept its eyes
narrowed to tiny slits.
Thalia jabbed at the monster and backed up. The lion
pressed her.
‘Percy,’ she called, ‘whatever you’re going to do –’
666
The lion roared and swatted her like a cat toy, sending her
ﬂying into the side of a Titan rocket. Her head hit the metal
and she slid to the ﬂoor.
‘Hey!’ I yelled at the lion. I was too far away to strike, so I
took a risk: I hurled Riptide like a throwing knife. It bounced
oﬀ the lion’s side, but that was enough to get the monster’s
attention. It turned towards me and snarled.
There was only one way to get close enough. I charged
and, as the lion leaped to intercept me, I chucked a space-
food pouch into its maw – a chunk of cellophane-wrapped
freeze-dried strawberry parfait.
The lion’s eyes got wide and it gagged like a cat with a
hairball.
I couldn’t blame it. I remembered feeling the same way
when I’d tried to eat space food as a kid. The stuﬀ was just
plain nasty.
‘Zoë, get ready!’ I yelled.
Behind me, I could hear people screaming. Grover was
playing another horrible song on his pipes.
I scrambled away from the lion. It managed to choke down
the space-food packet and looked at me with pure hate.
‘Snack time!’ I yelled.
It made the mistake of roaring at me, and I got an
icecream sandwich in its throat. Fortunately, I had always
been a pretty good pitcher, even though baseball wasn’t my
game. Before the lion could stop gagging, I shot in two more
ﬂavours of ice cream and a freeze-dried spaghetti dinner.
The lion’s eyes bugged. It opened its mouth wide and
reared up on its back paws, trying to get away from me.
‘Now!’ I yelled.
Immediately, arrows sprouted from the lion’s maw – two,
four, six. The lion thrashed wildly, turned and fell
backwards. And then it was still.
Alarms wailed throughout the museum. People were
ﬂocking to the exits. Security guards were running around in
a panic with no idea what was going on.
667
Grover knelt at Thalia’s side and helped her up. She
seemed okay, just a little dazed. Zoë and Bianca dropped
from the balcony and landed next to me.
Zoë eyed me cautiously. ‘That was… an interesting
strategy.’
‘Hey, it worked.’
She didn’t argue.
The lion seemed to be melting, the way dead monsters do
sometimes, until there was nothing left but its glittering fur
coat, and even that seemed to be shrinking to the size of a
normal lion’s pelt.
‘Take it,’ Zoë told me.
I stared at her. ‘What, the lion’s fur? Isn’t that, like, an
animal-rights violation or something?’
‘It is a spoil of war,’ she told me. ‘It is rightly thine.’
‘You killed it,’ I said.
She shook her head, almost smiling. ‘I think thy icecream
sandwich did that. Fair is fair, Percy Jackson. Take the fur.’
I lifted it up; it was surprisingly light. The fur was smooth
and soft. It didn’t feel at all like something that could stop a
blade. As I watched, the pelt shifted and changed into a full-
length golden-brown coat.
‘Not exactly my style,’ I murmured.
‘We have to get out of here,’ Grover said. ‘The security
guards won’t stay confused for long.’
I noticed for the ﬁrst time how strange it was that the
guards hadn’t rushed forward to arrest us. They were
scrambling in all directions except ours, like they were
madly searching for something. A few were running into the
walls or each other.
‘You did that?’ I asked Grover.
He nodded, looking a little embarrassed. ‘A minor
confusion song. I played some Barry Manilow. It works every
time. But it’ll only last a few seconds.’
‘The security guards are not our biggest worry,’ Zoë said.
‘Look.’
668
Through the glass walls of the museum, I could see a
group of men walking across the lawn. Grey men in grey
camouﬂage outﬁts. They were too far away for us to see
their eyes, but I could feel their gaze aimed straight at me.
‘Go,’ I said. ‘They’ll be hunting me. I’ll distract them.’
‘No,’ Zoë said. ‘We go together.’
I stared at her. ‘But you said –’
‘You are part of this quest now,’ Zoë said grudgingly. ‘I do
not like it, but there is no changing fate. You are the ﬁfth
quest member. And we are not leaving anyone behind.’
669
11    Grover Gets A Lamborghini
 
We were crossing the Potomac when we spotted the
helicopter. It was a sleek black military model just like the
one we’d seen at Westover Hall. And it was coming straight
towards us.
‘They know the van,’ I said. ‘We have to ditch it.’
Zoë swerved into the fast lane. The helicopter was
gaining.
‘Maybe the military will shoot it down,’ Grover said
hopefully.
‘The military probably thinks it’s one of theirs,’ I said.
‘How can the General use mortals, anyway?’
‘Mercenaries,’ Zoë said bitterly. ‘It is distasteful, but many
mortals will ﬁght for any cause as long as they are paid.’
‘But don’t these mortals see who they’re working for?’ I
asked. ‘Don’t they notice all the monsters around them?’
Zoë shook her head. ‘I do not know how much they see
through the Mist. I doubt it would matter to them if they
knew the truth. Sometimes mortals can be more horrible
than monsters.’
The helicopter kept coming, making a lot better time than
we were through D.C. traﬃc.
Thalia closed her eyes and prayed hard. ‘Hey, Dad. A
lightning bolt would be nice about now. Please?’
But the sky stayed grey and snowy. No sign of a helpful
thunderstorm.
‘There!’ Bianca said. ‘That parking lot!’
‘We’ll be trapped,’ Zoë said.
‘Trust me,’ Bianca said.
670
Zoë shot across two lanes of traﬃc and into a mall parking
lot on the south bank of the river. We left the van and
followed Bianca down some steps.
‘Subway 
entrance,’ 
Bianca 
said. 
‘Let’s 
go 
south.
Alexandria.’
‘Anything,’ Thalia agreed.
We bought tickets and got through the turnstiles, looking
behind us for any signs of pursuit. A few minutes later we
were safely aboard a southbound train, riding away from
D.C. As our train came above ground, we could see the
helicopter circling the parking lot, but it didn’t come after
us.
Grover let out a sigh. ‘Nice job, Bianca, thinking of the
subway.’
Bianca looked pleased. ‘Yeah, well. I remembered that
station from when Nico and I came through last summer. I
was really surprised to see it, because it wasn’t here when
we used to live in D.C.’
Grover frowned. ‘New? But that station looked really old.’
‘I guess,’ Bianca said. ‘But trust me, when we lived here
as little kids, there was no subway.’
Thalia sat forward. ‘Wait a minute. No subway at all?’
Bianca nodded.
Now, I knew nothing about D.C., but I didn’t see how their
whole subway system could be less than twelve years old. I
guess everyone else was thinking the same thing, because
they looked pretty confused.
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said. ‘How long ago…’ Her voice faltered.
The sound of the helicopter was getting louder again.
‘We need to change trains,’ I said. ‘Next station.’
Over the next half hour, all we thought about was getting
away safely. We changed trains twice. I had no idea where
we were going, but after a while we lost the helicopter.
Unfortunately, when we ﬁnally got oﬀ the train we found
ourselves at the end of the line, in an industrial area with
nothing but warehouses and railway tracks. And snow. Lots
671
of snow. It seemed much colder here. I was glad of my new
lion-fur coat.
We wandered through the railway yard, thinking there
might be another passenger train somewhere, but there
were just rows and rows of freight cars, most of which were
covered in snow, like they hadn’t moved in years.
A homeless guy was standing at a trashcan ﬁre. We
must’ve looked pretty pathetic, because he gave us a
toothless grin and said, ‘Y’ all need to get warmed up?
Come on over!’
We huddled round his ﬁre. Thalia’s teeth were chattering.
She said, ‘Well this is g-g-g-great.’
‘My hooves are frozen,’ Grover complained.
‘Feet,’ I corrected, for the sake of the homeless guy.
‘Maybe we should contact camp,’ Bianca said. ‘Chiron –’
‘No,’ Zoë said. ‘They cannot help us any more. We must
ﬁnish this quest ourselves.’
I gazed miserably around the railway yard. Somewhere,
far to the west, Annabeth was in danger. Artemis was in
chains. A doomsday monster was on the loose. And we were
stuck on the outskirts of D.C. sharing a homeless person’s
ﬁre.
‘You know,’ the homeless man said, ‘you’re never
completely without friends.’ His face was grimy and his
beard tangled, but his expression seemed kindly. ‘You kids
need a train going west?’
‘Yes, sir,’ I said. ‘You know of any?’
He pointed one greasy hand.
Suddenly I noticed a freight train, gleaming and free of
snow. It was one of those automobile-carrier trains, with
steel mesh curtains and a triple-deck of cars inside. The side
of the freight train said SUN WEST LINE.
‘That’s… convenient,’ Thalia said. ‘Thanks, uh…’
She turned to the homeless guy, but he was gone. The
trashcan in front of us was cold and empty, as if he’d taken
the ﬂames with him.
672
An hour later we were rumbling west. There was no problem
about who would drive now, because we all got our own
luxury car. Zoë and Bianca were crashed out in a Lexus on
the top deck. Grover was playing race-car driver behind the
wheel of a Lamborghini. And Thalia had hot-wired the radio
in a black Mercedes SLK so she could pick up the alt rock
stations from D.C.
‘Join you?’ I asked her.
She shrugged, so I climbed into the shotgun seat.
The radio was playing the White Stripes. I knew the song
because it was one of the only CDs I owned that my mom
liked. She said it reminded her of Led Zeppelin. Thinking
about my mom made me sad, because it didn’t seem likely
I’d be home for Christmas. I might not live that long.
‘Nice coat,’ Thalia told me.
I pulled it round me, thankful for the warmth. ‘Yeah, but
the Nemean Lion wasn’t the monster we’re looking for.’
‘Not even close. We’ve got a long way to go.’
‘Whatever this mystery monster is, the General said it
would come for you. They wanted to isolate you from the
group, so the monster will appear and battle you one on
one.’
‘He said that?’
‘Well, something like that. Yeah.’
‘That’s great. I love being used as bait.’
‘No idea what the monster might be?’
She shook her head morosely. ‘But you know where we’re
going, don’t you? San Francisco. That’s where Artemis was
heading.’
I remembered something Annabeth had said at the dance:
how her dad was moving to San Francisco, and there was no
way she could go. Half-bloods couldn’t live there.
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘What’s so bad about San Francisco?’
‘The Mist is really thick there because the Mountain of
Despair is so near. Titan magic – what’s left of it – still
673
lingers. Monsters are attracted to that area like you wouldn’t
believe.’
‘What’s the Mountain of Despair?’
Thalia raised an eyebrow. ‘You really don’t know? Ask
stupid Zoë. She’s the expert.’
She glared out the windshield. I wanted to ask her what
she was talking about, but I also didn’t want to sound like an
idiot. I hated feeling like Thalia knew more than I did, so I
kept my mouth shut.
The afternoon sun shone through the steel-mesh side of
the freight car, casting a shadow across Thalia’s face. I
thought about how diﬀerent she was from Zoë – Zoë all
formal and aloof like a princess, Thalia with her ratty clothes
and her rebel attitude. But there was something similar
about them, too. The same kind of toughness. Right now,
sitting in the shadows with a gloomy expression, Thalia
looked a lot like one of the Hunters.
Then suddenly it hit me: ‘That’s why you don’t get along
with Zoë.’
Thalia frowned. ‘What?’
‘The Hunters tried to recruit you,’ I guessed.
Her eyes got dangerously bright. I thought she was going
to zap me out of the Mercedes, but she just sighed.
‘I almost joined them,’ she admitted. ‘Luke, Annabeth and
I ran into them once, and Zoë tried to convince me. She
almost did, but…’
‘But?’
Thalia’s ﬁngers gripped the wheel. ‘I would’ve had to
leave Luke.’
‘Oh.’
‘Zoë and I got into a ﬁght. She told me I was being stupid.
She said I’d regret my choice. She said Luke would let me
down some day.’
I watched the sun through the metal curtain. We seemed
to be travelling faster each second – shadows ﬂickering like
an old movie projector.
674
‘That’s harsh,’ I said. ‘Hard to admit Zoë was right.’
‘She wasn’t right! Luke never let me down. Never.’
‘We’ll have to ﬁght him,’ I said. ‘There’s no way around it.’
Thalia didn’t answer.
‘You haven’t seen him lately,’ I warned. ‘I know it’s hard to
believe, but –’
‘I’ll do what I have to.’
‘Even if that means killing him?’
‘Do me a favour,’ she said. ‘Get out of my car.’
I felt so bad for her I didn’t argue.
As I was about to leave, she said, ‘Percy.’
When I looked back, her eyes were red, but I couldn’t tell
if it was from anger or sadness. ‘Annabeth wanted to join
the Hunters, too. Maybe you should think about why.’
Before I could respond, she raised the power windows and
shut me out.
I sat in the driver’s seat of Grover’s Lamborghini. Grover
was asleep in the back. He’d ﬁnally given up trying to
impress Zoë and Bianca with his pipe music after he played
‘Poison Ivy’ and caused that very stuﬀ to sprout from their
Lexus’ air conditioner.
As I watched the sun go down, I thought of Annabeth. I
was afraid to go to sleep. I was worried what I might dream.
‘Oh, don’t be afraid of dreams,’ a voice said right next me.
I looked over. Somehow, I wasn’t surprised to ﬁnd the
homeless guy from the railway yard sitting in the shotgun
seat. His jeans were so worn out they were almost white. His
coat was ripped, with stuﬃng coming out. He looked kind of
like a teddy bear that had been run over by a truck.
‘If it weren’t for dreams,’ he said, ‘I wouldn’t know half the
things I know about the future. They’re better than Olympus
tabloids.’ He cleared his throat, then held up his hands
dramatically:
 
675
‘Dreams like a podcast,
Downloading truth in my ears.
They tell me cool stuﬀ.’
 
 
‘Apollo?’ I guessed, because I ﬁgured nobody else could
make a haiku that bad.
He put his ﬁnger to his lips. ‘I’m incognito. Call me Fred.’
‘A god named Fred?’
‘Eh, well… Zeus insists on certain rules. Hands oﬀ, when
there’s a human quest. Even when something really major is
wrong. But nobody messes with my baby sister. Nobody.’
‘Can you help us, then?’
‘Shhh. I already have. Haven’t you been looking outside?’
‘The train. How fast are we moving?’
Apollo chuckled. ‘Fast enough. Unfortunately, we’re
running out of time. It’s almost sunset. But I imagine we’ll
get you across a good chunk of America, at least.’
‘But where is Artemis?’
His face darkened. ‘I know a lot, and I see a lot. But even I
don’t know that. She’s… clouded from me. I don’t like it.’
‘And Annabeth?’
He frowned. ‘Oh, you mean that girl you lost? Hmm. I
don’t know.’
I tried not to feel mad. I knew the gods had a hard time
taking mortals seriously, even half-bloods. We lived such
short lives, compared to the gods.
‘What about the monster Artemis was seeking?’ I asked.
‘Do you know what it is?’
‘No,’ Apollo said. ‘But there is one who might. If you
haven’t yet found the monster when you reach San
Francisco, seek out Nereus, the old man of the sea. He has a
long memory and a sharp eye. He has the gift of knowledge
sometimes kept obscure from my Oracle.’
‘But it’s your Oracle,’ I protested. ‘Can’t you tell us what
the prophecy means?’
676
Apollo sighed. ‘You might as well ask an artist to explain
his art, or ask a poet to explain his poem. It defeats the
purpose. The meaning is only clear through the search.’
‘In other words, you don’t know.’
Apollo checked his watch. ‘Ah, look at the time! I have to
run. I doubt I can risk helping you again, Percy, but
remember what I said! Get some sleep! And when you
return, I expect a good haiku about your journey!’
I wanted to protest that I wasn’t tired and I’d never made
up a haiku in my life, but Apollo snapped his ﬁngers, and the
next thing I knew I was closing my eyes.
In my dream, I was somebody else. I was wearing an old-
fashioned Greek tunic, which was a little too breezy
downstairs, and laced leather sandals. The Nemean Lion’s
skin was wrapped round my back like a cape, and I was
running somewhere, being pulled along by a girl who was
gripping my hand tightly.
‘Hurry!’ she said. It was too dark to see her face clearly,
but I could hear the fear in her voice. ‘He will ﬁnd us!’
It was night-time. A million stars blazed above. We were
running through tall grass, and the scent of a thousand
diﬀerent ﬂowers made the air intoxicating. It was a beautiful
garden, and yet the girl was leading me through it as if we
were about to die.
‘I’m not afraid,’ I tried to tell her.
‘You should be!’ she said, pulling me along. She had long
dark hair braided down her back. Her silk robes glowed
faintly in the starlight.
We raced up the side of the hill. She pulled me behind a
thorn bush and we collapsed, both breathing heavily. I didn’t
know why the girl was scared. The garden seemed so
peaceful. And I felt strong. Stronger than I’d ever felt before.
‘There is no need to run,’ I told her. My voice sounded
deeper, much more conﬁdent. ‘I have bested a thousand
monsters with my bare hands.’
677
‘Not this one,’ the girl said. ‘Ladon is too strong. You must
go round, up the mountain to my father. It is the only way.’
The hurt in her voice surprised me. She was really
concerned, almost like she cared about me.
‘I don’t trust your father,’ I said.
‘You should not,’ the girl agreed. ‘You will have to trick
him. But you cannot take the prize directly. You will die!’
I chuckled. ‘Then why don’t you help me, pretty one?’
‘I… I am afraid. Ladon will stop me. My sisters, if they
found out… they would disown me.’
‘Then there’s nothing for it.’ I stood up, rubbing my hands
together.
‘Wait!’ the girl said.
She seemed to be agonizing over a decision. Then, her
ﬁngers trembling, she reached up and plucked a long white
brooch from her hair. ‘If you must ﬁght, take this. My
mother, Pleoine, gave it to me. She was a daughter of the
ocean, and the ocean’s power is within it. My immortal
power.’
The girl breathed on the pin and it glowed faintly. It
gleamed in the starlight like polished abalone.
‘Take it,’ she told me. ‘And make of it a weapon.’
I laughed. ‘A hairpin? How will this slay Ladon, pretty
one?’
‘It may not,’ she admitted. ‘But it is all I can oﬀer, if you
insist on being stubborn.’
The girl’s voice softened my heart. I reached down and
took the hairpin, and, as I did, it grew longer and heavier in
my hand, until I held a familiar bronze sword.
‘Well balanced,’ I said. ‘Though, I usually prefer to use my
bare hands. What shall I name this blade?’
‘Anaklusmos,’ the girl said sadly. ‘The current that takes
one by surprise. And before you know it you have been
swept out to sea.’
Before I could thank her, there was a trampling sound in
the grass, a hiss like air escaping a tyre, and the girl said,
678
‘Too late! He is here!’
I sat bolt upright in the Lamborghini’s driver seat. Grover
was shaking my arm.
‘Percy,’ he said. ‘It’s morning. The train’s stopped. Come
on!’
I tried to shake oﬀ my drowsiness. Thalia, Zoë and Bianca
had already rolled up the metal curtains. Outside were
snowy mountains dotted with pine trees, the sun rising red
between two peaks.
I ﬁshed my pen out of my pocket and stared at it.
Anaklusmos, the Ancient Greek name for Riptide. A diﬀerent
form, but I was sure it was the same blade I’d seen in my
dream.
And I was sure of something else, too. The girl I had seen
was Zoë Nightshade.
679
12    I Go Snowboarding With A Pig
 
We’d arrived on the outskirts of a little ski town nestled in
the mountains. The sign said WELCOME TO CLOUDCROFT,
NEW MEXICO. The air was cold and thin. The roofs of the
cabins were heaped with snow, and dirty mounds of it were
piled up on the sides of the streets. Tall pine trees loomed
over the valley, casting pitch-black shadows, though the
morning was sunny.
Even with my lion-skin coat, I was freezing by the time we
got to Main Street, which was about half a mile from the
train tracks. As we walked, I told Grover about my
conversation with Apollo the night before – how he’d told
me to seek out Nereus in San Francisco.
Grover looked uneasy. ‘That’s good, I guess. But we’ve got
to get there ﬁrst.’
I tried not to get too depressed about our chances. I didn’t
want to send Grover into a panic, but I knew we had another
huge deadline looming, aside from saving Artemis in time
for her council of the gods. The General had said Annabeth
would only be kept alive until the winter solstice. That was
Friday, only four days away. And he’d said something about
a sacriﬁce. I didn’t like the sound of that at all.
We stopped in the middle of town. You could pretty much
see everything from there: a school, a bunch of tourist
stores and cafés, some ski cabins, and a grocery store.
‘Great,’ Thalia said, looking around. ‘No bus station. No
taxis. No car rental. No way out.’
‘There’s a coﬀee shop!’ said Grover.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said. ‘Coﬀee is good.’
680
‘And pastries,’ Grover said dreamily. ‘And wax paper.’
Thalia sighed. ‘Fine. How about you two go get us some
food. Percy, Bianca and I will check in the grocery store.
Maybe they can give us directions.’
We agreed to meet back in front of the grocery store in
ﬁfteen minutes. Bianca looked a little uncomfortable coming
with us, but she did.
Inside the store, we found out a few valuable things about
Cloudcroft: there wasn’t enough snow for skiing, the grocery
store sold rubber rats for a dollar each, and there was no
easy way in or out of town unless you had your own car.
‘You could call for a taxi from Alamogordo,’ the clerk said
doubtfully. ‘That’s down at the bottom of the mountains, but
it would take at least an hour to get here. Cost several
hundred dollars.’
The clerk looked so lonely, I bought a rubber rat. Then we
headed back outside and stood on the porch.
‘Wonderful,’ Thalia grumped. ‘I’m going to walk down the
street, see if anybody in the other shops has a suggestion.’
‘But the clerk said –’
‘I know,’ she told me. ‘I’m checking anyway.’
I let her go. I knew how it felt to be restless. All half-bloods
had attention deﬁcit problems because of our inborn
battleﬁeld reﬂexes. We couldn’t stand just waiting around.
Also, I had a feeling Thalia was still upset over our
conversation last night about Luke.
Bianca and I stood together awkwardly. I mean… I was
never very comfortable talking one on one with girls
anyway, and I’d never been alone with Bianca before. I
wasn’t sure what to say, especially now that she was a
Hunter and everything.
‘Nice rat,’ she said at last.
I set it on the porch railing. Maybe it would attract more
business for the store.
‘So… how do you like being a Hunter so far?’ I asked.
681
She pursed her lips. ‘You’re not still mad at me for joining,
are you?’
‘Nah. Long as, you know… you’re happy.’
‘I’m not sure “happy” is the right word, with Lady Artemis
gone. But being a Hunter is deﬁnitely cool. I feel calmer
somehow. Everything seems to have slowed down around
me. I guess that’s the immortality.’
I stared at her, trying to see the diﬀerence. She did seem
more conﬁdent than before, more at peace. She didn’t hide
her face under a green cap any more. She kept her hair tied
back, and she looked me right in the eyes when she spoke.
With a shiver, I realized that ﬁve hundred or a thousand
years from now Bianca di Angelo would look exactly the
same as she did today. She might be having a conversation
like this with some other half-blood, long after I was dead,
but Bianca would still look twelve years old.
‘Nico didn’t understand my decision,’ Bianca murmured.
She looked at me like she wanted assurance it was okay.
‘He’ll be all right,’ I said. ‘Camp Half-Blood takes in a lot of
young kids. They did that for Annabeth.’
Bianca nodded. ‘I hope we ﬁnd her. Annabeth, I mean.
She’s lucky to have a friend like you.’
‘Lot of good it did her.’
‘Don’t blame yourself, Percy. You risked your life to save
my brother and me. I mean, that was seriously brave. If I
hadn’t met you, I wouldn’t have felt okay about leaving Nico
at the camp. I ﬁgured if there were people like you there,
Nico would be ﬁne. You’re a good guy.’
The compliment took me by surprise. ‘Even though I
knocked you down in capture the ﬂag?’
She laughed. ‘Okay. Except for that, you’re a good guy.’
Two hundred metres away, Grover and Zoë came out of
the coﬀee shop loaded down with pastry bags and drinks. I
kind of didn’t want them to come back yet. It was weird, but
I realized I liked talking to Bianca. She wasn’t so bad. A lot
easier to hang out with than Zoë Nightshade, anyway.
682
‘So what’s the story with you and Nico?’ I asked her.
‘Where did you go to school before Westover?’
She frowned. ‘I think it was a boarding school in D.C. It
seems like so long ago.’
‘You never lived with your parents? I mean, your mortal
parent?’
‘We were told our parents were dead. There was a bank
trust for us. A lot of money, I think. A lawyer would come by
once in a while to check on us. Then Nico and I had to leave
that school.’
‘Why?’
She knitted her eyebrows. ‘We had to go somewhere. I
remember it was important. We travelled a long way. And
we stayed in this hotel for a few weeks. And then… I don’t
know. One day a diﬀerent lawyer came to get us out. He
said it was time for us to leave. He drove us back east,
through D.C. Then up into Maine. And we started going to
Westover.’
It was a strange story. Then again, Bianca and Nico were
half-bloods. Nothing would be normal for them.
‘So you’ve been raising Nico pretty much all your life?’ I
asked. ‘Just the two of you?’
She nodded. ‘That’s why I wanted to join the Hunters so
badly. I mean, I know it’s selﬁsh, but I wanted my own life
and friends. I love Nico – don’t get me wrong – I just needed
to ﬁnd out what it would be like not to be a big sister
twenty-four hours a day.’
I thought about last summer, the way I’d felt when I found
out I had a Cyclops for a baby brother. I could relate to what
Bianca was saying.
‘Zoë seems to trust you,’ I said. ‘What were you guys
talking about, anyway – something dangerous about the
quest?’
‘When?’
‘Yesterday morning on the pavilion,’ I said, before I could
stop myself. ‘Something about the General.’
683
Her face darkened. ‘How did you… The invisibility hat.
Were you eavesdropping?’
‘No! I mean, not really. I just –’
I was saved from trying to explain when Zoë and Grover
arrived with the drinks and pastries. Hot chocolate for
Bianca and me. Coﬀee for them. I got a blueberry muﬃn,
and it was so good I could almost ignore the outraged look
Bianca was giving me.
‘We should do the tracking spell,’ Zoë said. ‘Grover, do
you have any acorns left?’
‘Umm,’ Grover mumbled. He was chewing on a bran
muﬃn, wrapper and all. ‘I think so. I just need to –’
He froze.
I was about to ask what was wrong when a warm breeze
rustled past, like a gust of springtime had got lost in the
middle of winter. Fresh air seasoned with wildﬂowers and
sunshine. And something else – almost like a voice, trying to
say something. A warning.
Zoë gasped. ‘Grover, thy cup.’
Grover dropped his coﬀee cup, which was decorated with
pictures of birds. Suddenly the birds peeled oﬀ the cup and
ﬂew away – a tiny ﬂock of doves. My rubber rat squeaked. It
scampered oﬀ the railing and into the trees – real fur, real
whiskers.
Grover collapsed next to his coﬀee, which steamed
against the snow. We gathered round him and tried to wake
him up. He groaned, his eyes ﬂuttering.
‘Hey!’ Thalia said, running up from the street. ‘I just…
What’s wrong with Grover?’
‘I don’t know,’ I said. ‘He collapsed.’
‘Uuuuuhhhh,’ Grover groaned.
‘Well, get him up!’ Thalia said. She had her spear in her
hand. She looked behind her as if she were being followed.
‘We have to get out of here.’
684
We made it to the edge of the town before the ﬁrst two
skeleton warriors appeared. They stepped from the trees on
either side of the road. Instead of grey camouﬂage, they
were now wearing blue New Mexico State Police uniforms,
but they had the same transparent grey skin and yellow
eyes.
They drew their handguns. I’ll admit I used to think it
would be kind of cool to learn how to shoot a gun, but I
changed my mind as soon as the skeleton warriors pointed
theirs at me.
Thalia tapped her bracelet. Aegis spiralled to life on her
arm, but the warriors didn’t ﬂinch. Their glowing yellow eyes
bored right into me.
I drew Riptide, though I wasn’t sure what good it would do
against guns.
Zoë and Bianca drew their bows, but Bianca was having
trouble because Grover kept swooning and leaning against
her.
‘Back up,’ Thalia said.
We started to – but then I heard a rustling of branches.
Two more skeletons appeared on the road behind us. We
were surrounded.
I wondered where the other skeletons were. I’d seen a
dozen at the Smithsonian. Then one of the warriors raised a
cell phone to his mouth and spoke into it.
Except he wasn’t speaking. He made a clattering, clicking
sound, like dry teeth on bone. Suddenly I understood what
was going on. The skeletons had split up to look for us.
These skeletons were now calling their brethren. Soon we’d
have a full party on our hands.
‘It’s near,’ Grover moaned.
‘It’s here,’ I said.
‘No,’ he insisted. ‘The gift. The gift from the Wild.’
I didn’t know what he was talking about, but I was worried
about his condition. He was in no shape to walk, much less
ﬁght.
685
‘We’ll have to go one on one,’ Thalia said. ‘Four of them.
Four of us. Maybe they’ll ignore Grover that way.’
‘Agreed,’ said Zoë.
‘The Wild!’ Grover moaned.
A warm wind blew through the canyon, rustling the trees,
but I kept my eyes on the skeletons. I remembered the
General gloating over Annabeth’s fate. I remembered the
way Luke had betrayed her.
And I charged.
The ﬁrst skeleton ﬁred. Time slowed down. I won’t say I
could see the bullet, but I could feel its path, the same way I
felt water currents in the ocean. I deﬂected it oﬀ the edge of
my blade and kept charging.
The skeleton drew a baton and I sliced oﬀ his arms at the
elbows. Then I swung Riptide through his waist and cut him
in half.
His bones unknitted and clattered to the tarmac in a heap.
Almost immediately, they began to move, reassembling
themselves. The second skeleton clattered his teeth at me
and tried to ﬁre, but I knocked his gun into the snow.
I thought I was doing pretty well, until the other two
skeletons shot me in the back.
‘Percy!’ Thalia screamed.
I landed facedown in the street. Then I realized
something… I wasn’t dead. The impact of the bullets had
been dull, like a push from behind, but they hadn’t hurt me.
The Nemean Lion’s fur! My coat was bulletproof.
Thalia charged the second skeleton. Zoë and Bianca
started ﬁring arrows at the third and fourth. Grover stood
there and held his hands out to the trees, looking like he
wanted to hug them.
There was a crashing sound in the forest to our left, like a
bulldozer. 
Maybe 
the 
skeletons’ 
reinforcements 
were
arriving. I got to my feet and ducked a police baton. The
skeleton I’d cut in half was already fully re-formed, coming
after me.
686
There was no way to stop them. Zoë and Bianca ﬁred at
their heads point-blank, but the arrows just whistled straight
through their empty skulls. One lunged at Bianca, and I
thought she was a goner, but she whipped out her hunting
knife and stabbed the warrior in the chest. The whole
skeleton erupted into ﬂames, leaving a little pile of ashes
and a police badge.
‘How did you do that?’ Zoë asked.
‘I don’t know,’ Bianca said nervously. ‘Lucky shot?’
‘Well, do it again!’
Bianca tried, but the remaining three skeletons were wary
of her now. They pressed us back, keeping us at baton’s
length.
‘Plan?’ I said as we retreated.
Nobody answered. The trees behind the skeletons were
shivering. Branches were cracking.
‘A gift,’ Grover muttered.
And then, with a mighty roar, the largest pig I’d ever seen
came crashing into the road. It was a wild boar, ten metres
high, with a snotty pink snout and tusks the size of canoes.
Its back bristled with brown hair, and its eyes were wild and
angry.
‘REEEEEEEEET!’ it squealed, and raked the three skeletons
aside with its tusks. The force was so great they went ﬂying
over the trees and into the side of the mountain, where they
smashed to pieces, thigh bones and arm bones twirling
everywhere.
Then the pig turned on us.
Thalia raised her spear, but Grover yelled, ‘Don’t kill it!’
The boar grunted and pawed the ground, ready to charge.
‘That’s the Erymanthian Boar,’ Zoë said, trying to stay
calm. ‘I don’t think we can kill it.’
‘It’s a gift,’ Grover said. ‘A blessing from the Wild!’
The boar said ‘REEEEEET!’ and swung its tusk. Zoë and
Bianca dived out of the way. I had to push Grover so he
687
wouldn’t get launched into the mountain on the Boar Tusk
Express.
‘Yeah, I feel blessed!’ I said. ‘Scatter!’
We ran in diﬀerent directions, and for a moment the boar
was confused.
‘It wants to kill us!’ Thalia said.
‘Of course,’ Grover said. ‘It’s wild!’
‘So how is that a blessing?’ Bianca asked.
It seemed a fair question to me, but the pig was oﬀended
and charged her. She was faster than I’d realized. She rolled
out of the way of its hooves and came up behind the beast.
It lashed out with its tusks and pulverized the WELCOME TO
CLOUDCROFT sign.
I racked my brain, trying to remember the myth of the
boar. I was pretty sure Hercules had fought this thing once,
but I couldn’t remember how he’d beaten it. I had a vague
memory of the boar ploughing down several Greek cities
before Hercules managed to subdue it. I hoped Cloudcroft
was insured against giant wild boar attacks.
‘Keep moving!’ Zoë yelled. She and Bianca ran in opposite
directions. Grover danced around the boar, playing his pipes
while the boar snorted and tried to gouge him. But Thalia
and I won the prize for bad luck. When the boar turned on
us, Thalia made the mistake of raising Aegis in defence. The
sight of the Medusa head made the boar squeal in outrage.
Maybe it looked too much like one of his relatives. The boar
charged us.
We only managed to keep ahead of it because we ran
uphill, and we could dodge in and out of trees while the boar
had to plough through them.
On the other side of the hill, I found an old stretch of train
tracks, half buried in the snow.
‘This way!’ I grabbed Thalia’s arm and we ran along the
rails while the boar roared behind us, slipping and sliding as
it tried to navigate the steep hillside. Its hooves were just
not made for this, thank the gods.
688
Ahead of us, I saw a covered tunnel. Past that, an old
trestle bridge spanning a gorge. I had a crazy idea.
‘Follow me!’
Thalia slowed down – I didn’t have time to ask why – but I
pulled her along and she reluctantly followed. Behind us, a
ten-ton pig tank was knocking down pine trees and crushing
boulders under its hooves as it chased us.
Thalia and I ran into the tunnel and came out on the other
side.
‘No!’ Thalia screamed.
She’d turned as white as ice. We were at the edge of the
bridge. Below, the mountain dropped away into a snow-ﬁlled
gorge about twenty metres below.
The boar was right behind us.
‘Come on!’ I said. ‘It’ll hold our weight, probably.’
‘I can’t!’ Thalia yelled. Her eyes were wild with fear.
The boar smashed into the covered tunnel, tearing
through at full speed.
‘Now!’ I yelled at Thalia.
She looked down and swallowed. I swear she was turning
green.
I didn’t have time to process why. The boar was charging
through the tunnel, straight towards us. Plan B. I tackled
Thalia and sent us both sideways oﬀ the edge of the bridge,
into the side of the mountain. We slid on Aegis like a
snowboard, over rocks and mud and snow, racing downhill.
The boar was less fortunate; it couldn’t turn that fast, so all
ten tons of the monster charged out onto the tiny trestle,
which buckled under its weight. The boar free-fell into the
gorge with a mighty squeal and landed in a snowdrift with a
huge POOOOOF!
Thalia and I skidded to a stop. We were both breathing
hard. I was cut up and bleeding. Thalia had pine needles in
her hair. Next to us, the wild boar was squealing and
struggling. All I could see was the bristly tip of its back. It
was wedged completely in the snow like Styrofoam packing.
689
It didn’t seem to be hurt, but it wasn’t going anywhere,
either.
I looked at Thalia. ‘You’re afraid of heights.’
Now that we were safely down the mountain, her eyes
had their usual angry look. ‘Don’t be stupid.’
‘That explains why you freaked out on Apollo’s bus. Why
you didn’t want to talk about it.’
She took a deep breath. Then she brushed the pine
needles out of her hair. ‘If you tell anyone, I swear –’
‘No, no,’ I said. ‘That’s cool. It’s just… the daughter of
Zeus, the lord of the sky, afraid of heights?’
She was about to knock me into the snow when, above us,
Grover’s voice called, ‘Helloooooo?’
‘Down here!’ I called.
A few minutes later, Zoë, Bianca and Grover joined us. We
stood watching the wild boar struggle in the snow.
‘A blessing of the Wild,’ Grover said, though he now
looked agitated.
‘I agree,’ Zoë said. ‘We must use it.’
‘Hold up,’ Thalia said irritably. She still looked like she’d
just lost a ﬁght with a Christmas tree. ‘Explain to me why
you’re so sure this pig is a blessing.’
Grover looked over, distracted. ‘It’s our ride west. Do you
have any idea how fast this boar can travel?’
‘Fun,’ I said. ‘Like… pig cowboys.’
Grover nodded. ‘We need to get aboard. I wish… I wish I
had more time to look around. But it’s gone now.’
‘What’s gone?’
Grover didn’t seem to hear me. He walked over to the
boar and jumped onto its back. Already the boar was
starting to make some headway through the drift. Once it
broke free, there’d be no stopping it. Grover took out his
pipes. He started playing a snappy tune and tossed an apple
in front of the boar. The apple ﬂoated and spun right above
the boar’s nose, and the boar went nuts, straining to get it.
‘Automatic steering,’ Thalia murmured. ‘Great.’
690
She trudged over and jumped on behind Grover, which
still left plenty of room for the rest of us.
Zoë and Bianca walked towards the boar.
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘Do you two know what Grover is
talking about – this wild blessing?’
‘Of course,’ Zoë said. ‘Did you not feel it in the wind? It
was so strong… I never thought I would sense that presence
again.’
‘What presence?’
She stared at me like I was an idiot. ‘The Lord of the Wild,
of course. Just for a moment, in the arrival of the boar, I felt
the presence of Pan.’
691
13    We Visit The Junkyard Of The Gods
 
We rode the boar until sunset, which was about as much as
my backside could take. Imagine riding a giant steel brush
over a bed of gravel all day. That’s about how comfortable
boar-riding was.
I have no idea how many miles we covered, but the
mountains faded into the distance and were replaced by
miles of ﬂat dry land. The grass and scrub brush got sparser
until we were galloping (do boars gallop?) across the desert.
As night fell, the boar came to a stop at a creek bed and
snorted. He started drinking the muddy water, then ripped a
saguaro cactus out of the ground and chewed it, needles
and all.
‘This is as far as he’ll go,’ Grover said. ‘We need to get oﬀ
while he’s eating.’
Nobody needed convincing. We slipped oﬀ the boar’s back
while he was busy ripping up cacti. Then we waddled away
as best we could with our saddle sores.
After its third saguaro and another drink of muddy water,
the boar squealed and belched, then whirled round and
galloped back towards the east.
‘It likes the mountains better,’ I guessed.
‘I can’t blame it,’ Thalia said. ‘Look.’
Ahead of us was a two-lane road half blown over with
sand. On the other side of the road was a cluster of
buildings too small to be a town: a boarded-up house, a taco
shop that looked like it hadn’t been open since before Zoë
Nightshade was born, and a white stucco post oﬃce with a
sign that said GILA CLAW, ARIZONA hanging crooked above
692
the door. Beyond that was a range of hills… but then I
noticed they weren’t regular hills. The countryside was way
too ﬂat for that. The hills were enormous mounds of old
cars, appliances, and other scrap metal. It was a junkyard
that seemed to go on forever.
‘Whoa,’ I said.
‘Something tells me we’re not going to ﬁnd a car rental
here,’ Thalia said. She looked at Grover. ‘I don’t suppose you
got another wild boar up your sleeve?’
Grover was sniﬃng the wind, looking nervous. He ﬁshed
out his acorns and threw them into the sand, then played
his pipes. They rearranged themselves in a pattern that
made no sense to me, but Grover looked concerned.
‘That’s us,’ he said. ‘Those ﬁve nuts right there.’
‘Which one is me?’ I asked.
‘The little deformed one,’ Zoë suggested.
‘Oh, shut up.’
‘That cluster right there,’ Grover said, pointing to the left,
‘that’s trouble.’
‘A monster?’ Thalia asked.
Grover looked uneasy. ‘I don’t smell anything, which
doesn’t make sense. But the acorns don’t lie. Our next
challenge…’
He pointed straight towards the junkyard. With the
sunlight almost gone now, the hills of metal looked like
something on an alien planet.
We decided to camp for the night and try the junkyard in the
morning. None of us wanted to go dump-diving in the dark.
Zoë and Bianca produced ﬁve sleeping bags and foam
mattresses out of their backpacks. I don’t know how they
did it, because the packs were tiny, but they must’ve been
enchanted to hold more stuﬀ. I’d noticed their bows and
quivers were also magic. I never really thought about it, but
when the Hunters needed them, they just appeared slung
over their backs. And when they didn’t, they were gone.
693
The night got chilly fast, so Grover and I collected old
boards from the ruined house, and Thalia zapped them with
an electric shock to start a campﬁre. Pretty soon we were
about as comfy as you can get in a rundown ghost town in
the middle of nowhere.
‘The stars are out,’ Zoë said.
She was right. There were millions of them, with no city
lights to turn the sky orange.
‘Amazing,’ Bianca said. ‘I’ve never actually seen the Milky
Way.’
‘This is nothing,’ Zoë said. ‘In the old days, there were
more. Whole constellations have disappeared because of
human light pollution.’
‘You talk like you’re not human,’ I said.
Zoë raised an eyebrow. ‘I am a Hunter. I care what
happens to the wild places of the world. Can the same be
said for thee?’
‘For you’, Thalia corrected. ‘Not thee.’
‘But you use you for the beginning of a sentence.’
‘And for the end,’ Thalia said. ‘No thou. No thee. Just you.’
Zoë threw up her hands in exasperation. ‘I hate this
language. It changes too often!’
Grover sighed. He was still looking up at the stars like he
was thinking about the light pollution problem. ‘If only Pan
were here, he would set things right.’
Zoë nodded sadly.
‘Maybe it was the coﬀee,’ Grover said. ‘I was drinking
coﬀee, and the wind came. Maybe if I drank more coﬀee…’
I was pretty sure coﬀee had nothing to do with what had
happened in Cloudcroft, but I didn’t have the heart to tell
Grover. I thought about the rubber rat and the paper birds
that had suddenly come alive when the wind blew. ‘Grover,
do you really think that was Pan? I mean, I know you want it
to be.’
‘He sent us help,’ Grover insisted. ‘I don’t know how or
why. But it was his presence. After this quest is done, I’m
694
going back to New Mexico and drinking a lot of coﬀee. It’s
the best lead we’ve got in two thousand years. I was so
close.’
I didn’t answer. I didn’t want to squash Grover’s hopes.
‘What I want to know,’ Thalia said, looking at Bianca, ‘is
how you destroyed one of the zombies. There are a lot more
out there somewhere. We need to ﬁgure out how to ﬁght
them.’
Bianca shook her head. ‘I don’t know. I just stabbed it and
it went up in ﬂames.’
‘Maybe there’s something special about your knife,’ I said.
‘It is the same as mine,’ Zoë said. ‘Celestial bronze, yes.
But mine did not aﬀect the warriors that way.’
‘Maybe you have to hit the skeleton in a certain spot,’ I
said.
Bianca looked uncomfortable with everybody paying
attention to her.
‘Never mind,’ Zoë told her. ‘We will ﬁnd the answer. In the
meantime, we should plan our next move. When we get
through this junkyard, we must continue west. If we can ﬁnd
a road, we can hitchhike to the nearest city. I think that
would be Las Vegas.’
I was about to protest that Grover and I had had bad
experiences in that town, but Bianca beat us to it.
‘No!’ she said. ‘Not there!’
She looked really freaked out, like she’d just been dropped
oﬀ the steep end of a roller coaster.
Zoë frowned. ‘Why?’
Bianca took a shaky breath. ‘I… I think we stayed there for
a while. Nico and I. When we were travelling. And then, I
can’t remember…’
Suddenly I had a really bad thought. I remembered what
Bianca had told me about Nico and her staying in a hotel for
a while. I met Grover’s eyes, and I got the feeling he was
thinking the same thing.
695
‘Bianca,’ I said. ‘That hotel you stayed at. Was it possibly
called the Lotus Hotel and Casino?’
Her eyes widened. ‘How could you know that?’
‘Oh, great,’ I said.
‘Wait,’ Thalia said. ‘What is the Lotus Casino?’
‘A couple of years ago,’ I said, ‘Grover, Annabeth and I got
trapped there. It’s designed so you never want to leave. We
stayed for about an hour. When we came out, ﬁve days had
passed. It makes time speed up.’
‘No,’ Bianca said. ‘No, that’s not possible.’
‘You 
said 
somebody 
came 
and 
got 
you 
out,’ 
I
remembered.
‘Yes.’
‘What did he look like? What did he say?’
‘I… I don’t remember. Please, I really don’t want to talk
about this.’
Zoë sat forward, her eyebrows knitted with concern. ‘You
said that Washington, D.C. had changed when you went
back last summer. You didn’t remember the subway being
there.’
‘Yes, but –’
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said, ‘can you tell me the name of the
president of the United States right now?’
‘Don’t be silly,’ Bianca said. She told us the correct name
of the president.
‘And who was the president before that?’ Zoë asked.
Bianca thought for a while. ‘Roosevelt.’
Zoë swallowed. ‘Theodore or Franklin?’
‘Franklin,’ Bianca said. ‘F.D.R.’
‘Like F.D.R. Drive?’ I asked. Because, seriously, that’s
about all I knew about F.D.R.
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said. ‘F.D.R. was not the last president. That
was about seventy years ago.’
‘That’s impossible,’ Bianca said. ‘I… I’m not that old.’
She stared at her hands as if to make sure they weren’t
wrinkled.
696
Thalia’s eyes turned sad. I guess she knew what it was like
to get pulled out of time for a while. ‘It’s okay, Bianca. The
important thing is you and Nico are safe. You made it out.’
‘But how?’ I said. ‘We were only in there for an hour and
we barely escaped. How could you have escaped after being
there for so long?’
‘I told you.’ Bianca looked about ready to cry. ‘A man
came and said it was time to leave. And –’
‘But who? Why did he do it?’
Before she could answer, we were hit with a blazing light
from down the road. The headlights of a car appeared out of
nowhere. I was half hoping it was Apollo, come to give us a
ride again, but the engine was way too silent for the sun
chariot, and, besides, it was night-time. We grabbed our
sleeping bags and got out of the way as a deathly white
limousine slid to a stop in front of us.
The back door of the limo opened right next to me. Before I
could step away, the point of a sword touched my throat.
I heard the sound of Zoë and Bianca drawing their bows.
As the owner of the sword got out of the car, I moved back
very slowly. I had to, because he was pushing the point
under my chin.
He smiled cruelly. ‘Not so fast now, are you, punk?’
He was a big man with a crew cut, a black leather biker’s
jacket, black jeans, a skin-tight white vest and combat
boots. Wraparound shades hid his eyes, but I knew what
was behind those glasses – hollow sockets ﬁlled with ﬂames.
‘Ares,’ I growled.
The war god glanced at my friends. ‘At ease, people.’
He snapped his ﬁngers, and their weapons fell to the
ground.
‘This is a friendly meeting.’ He dug the point of his blade a
little further under my chin. ‘Of course I’d like to take your
head for a trophy, but someone wants to see you. And I
never behead my enemies in front of a lady.’
697
‘What lady?’ Thalia asked.
Ares looked over at her. ‘Well, well. I heard you were
back.’
He lowered his sword and pushed me away.
‘Thalia, daughter of Zeus,’ Ares mused. ‘You’re not
hanging out with very good company.’
‘What’s your business, Ares?’ she said. ‘Who’s in the car?’
Ares smiled, enjoying the attention. ‘Oh, I doubt she wants
to meet the rest of you. Particularly not them.’ He jutted his
chin towards Zoë and Bianca. ‘Why don’t you all go get
some tacos while you wait? Only take Percy a few minutes.’
‘We will not leave him alone with thee, Lord Ares,’ Zoë
said.
‘Besides,’ Grover managed, ‘the taco place is closed.’
Ares snapped his ﬁngers again. The lights inside the
taqueria suddenly blazed to life. The boards ﬂew oﬀ the
door and the CLOSED sign ﬂipped to OPEN. ‘You were
saying, goat boy?’
‘Go on,’ I told my friends. ‘I’ll handle this.’
I tried to sound more conﬁdent than I felt. I don’t think
Ares was fooled.
‘You heard the boy,’ Ares said. ‘He’s big and strong. He’s
got things under control.’
My friends reluctantly headed over to the taco restaurant.
Ares regarded me with loathing then opened the limousine
door like a chauﬀeur.
‘Get inside, punk,’ he said. ‘And mind your manners. She’s
not as forgiving of rudeness as I am.’
When I saw her, my jaw dropped.
I forgot my name. I forgot where I was. I forgot how to
speak in complete sentences.
She was wearing a red satin dress and her hair was curled
in a cascade of ringlets. Her face was the most beautiful I’d
ever seen: perfect makeup, dazzling eyes, a smile that
would’ve lit up the dark side of the moon.
698
Thinking back on it, I can’t tell you who she looked like. Or
even what colour her hair or her eyes were. Pick the most
beautiful actress you can think of. The goddess was ten
times more beautiful than that. Pick your favourite hair
colour, eye colour, whatever. The goddess had that.
When she smiled at me, just for a moment she looked a
little like Annabeth. Then like this television actress I used to
have a crush on in ﬁfth grade. Then… well, you get the idea.
‘Ah, there you are, Percy,’ the goddess said. ‘I am
Aphrodite.’
I slipped into the seat across from her and said something
like, ‘Um uh gah.’
She smiled. ‘Aren’t you sweet. Hold this, please.’
She handed me a polished mirror the size of a dinner plate
and had me hold it up for her. She leaned forward and
dabbed at her lipstick, though I couldn’t see anything wrong
with it.
‘Do you know why you’re here?’ she asked.
I wanted to respond. Why couldn’t I form a complete
sentence? She was only a lady. A seriously beautiful lady.
With eyes like pools of spring water… Whoa.
I pinched my own arm, hard.
‘I… I don’t know,’ I managed.
‘Oh, dear,’ Aphrodite said. ‘Still in denial?’
Outside the car, I could hear Ares chuckling. I had a
feeling he could hear every word we said. The idea of him
being out there made me angry, and that helped clear my
mind.
‘I don’t know what you’re talking about,’ I said.
‘Well then, why are you on this quest?’
‘Artemis has been captured!’
Aphrodite rolled her eyes. ‘Oh, Artemis. Please. Talk about
a hopeless case. I mean, if they were going to kidnap a
goddess, she should be breathtakingly beautiful, don’t you
think? I pity the poor dears who have to imprison Artemis.
Bo-ring!’
699
‘But she was chasing a monster,’ I protested. ‘A really,
really bad monster. We have to ﬁnd it!’
Aphrodite made me hold the mirror a little higher. She
seemed to have found a microscopic problem at the corner
of her eye and dabbed at her mascara. ‘Always some
monster. But, my dear Percy, that is why the others are on
this quest. I’m more interested in you.’
My heart pounded. I didn’t want to answer, but her eyes
drew an answer right out of my mouth. ‘Annabeth is in
trouble.’
Aphrodite beamed. ‘Exactly!’
‘I have to help her,’ I said. ‘I’ve been having these
dreams.’
‘Ah, you even dream about her! That’s so cute!’
‘No! I mean… that’s not what I meant.’
She made a tsk tsk sound. ‘Percy, I’m on your side. I’m the
reason you’re here, after all.’
I stared at her. ‘What?’
‘The poisoned T-shirt the Stoll brothers gave Phoebe,’ she
said. ‘Did you think that was an accident? Sending Blackjack
to ﬁnd you? Helping you sneak out of the camp?’
‘You did that?’
‘Of course! Because, really, how boring these Hunters are!
A quest for some monster, blah blah blah. Saving Artemis.
Let her stay lost, I say. But a quest for true love –’
‘Wait a second, I never said –’
‘Oh, my dear. You don’t need to say it. You do know
Annabeth was close to joining the Hunters, don’t you?’
I blushed. ‘I wasn’t sure –’
‘She was about to throw her life away! And you, my dear,
you can save her from that. It’s so romantic!’
‘Uh…’
‘Oh, put the mirror down,’ Aphrodite ordered. ‘I look ﬁne.’
I hadn’t realized I was still holding it, but as soon as I put it
down, I noticed my arms were sore.
700
‘Now listen, Percy,’ Aphrodite said. ‘The Hunters are your
enemies. Forget them and Artemis and the monster. That’s
not important. You just concentrate on ﬁnding and saving
Annabeth.’
‘Do you know where she is?’
Aphrodite waved her hand irritably. ‘No, no. I leave the
details to you. But it’s been ages since we’ve had a good
tragic love story.’
‘Whoa, ﬁrst of all, I never said anything about love. And
second, what’s up with tragic?’
‘Love conquers all,’ Aphrodite promised. ‘Look at Helen
and Paris. Did they let anything come between them?’
‘Didn’t they start the Trojan War and get thousands of
people killed?’
‘Pﬀt. That’s not the point. Follow your heart.’
‘But… I don’t know where it’s going. My heart, I mean.’
She smiled sympathetically. She really was beautiful. And
not just because she had a pretty face or anything. She
believed in love so much, it was impossible not to feel giddy
when she talked about it.
‘Not knowing is half the fun,’ Aphrodite said. ‘Exquisitely
painful, isn’t it? Not being sure who you love and who loves
you? Oh, you kids! It’s so cute I’m going to cry.’
‘No, no,’ I said. ‘Don’t do that.’
‘And don’t worry,’ she said. ‘I’m not going let this be easy
and boring for you. No, I have some wonderful surprises in
store. Anguish. Indecision. Oh, you just wait.’
‘That’s really okay,’ I told her. ‘Don’t go to any trouble.’
‘You’re so cute. I wish all my daughters could break the
heart of a boy as nice as you.’ Aphrodite’s eyes were tearing
up. ‘Now, you’d better go. And do be careful in my
husband’s territory, Percy. Don’t take anything. He is awfully
fussy about his trinkets and trash.’
‘What?’ I asked. ‘You mean Hephaestus?’
But the car door opened and Ares grabbed my shoulder,
pulling me out of the car and back into the desert night.
701
My audience with the goddess of love was over.
‘You’re lucky, punk.’ Ares pushed me away from the limo.
‘Be grateful.’
‘For what?’
‘That we’re being so nice. If it was up to me –’
‘So why haven’t you killed me?’ I shot back. It was a
stupid thing to say to the god of war, but being around him
always made me feel angry and reckless.
Ares nodded, like I’d ﬁnally said something intelligent.
‘I’d love to kill you, seriously,’ he said. ‘But, see, I got a
situation. Word on Olympus is that you might start the
biggest war in history. I can’t risk messing that up. Besides,
Aphrodite thinks you’re some kinda soap-opera star or
something. I kill you, that makes me look bad with her. But
don’t worry. I haven’t forgotten my promise. Some day soon,
kid – real soon – you’re going to raise your sword to ﬁght,
and you’re going to remember the wrath of Ares.’
I balled my ﬁsts. ‘Why wait? I beat you once. How’s that
ankle healing up?’
He grinned crookedly. ‘Not bad, punk. But you got nothing
on the master of taunts. I’ll start the ﬁght when I’m good
and ready. Until then… Get lost.’
He snapped his ﬁngers and the world did a three-sixty,
spinning in a cloud of red dust. I fell to the ground.
When I stood up again, the limousine was gone. The road,
the taco restaurant, the whole town of Gila Claw was gone.
My friends and I were standing in the middle of the
junkyard, mountains of scrap metal stretched out in every
direction.
‘What did she want with you?’ Bianca asked, once I’d told
them about Aphrodite.
‘Oh, uh, not sure,’ I lied. ‘She said to be careful in her
husband’s junkyard. She said not to pick anything up.’
702
Zoë narrowed her eyes. ‘The goddess of love would not
make a special trip to tell thee that. Be careful, Percy.
Aphrodite has led many heroes astray.’
‘For once, I agree with Zoë,’ Thalia said. ‘You can’t trust
Aphrodite.’
Grover was looking at me funny. Being empathic and all,
he could usually read my emotions, and I got the feeling he
knew exactly what Aphrodite had talked to me about.
‘So,’ I said, anxious to change the subject, ‘how do we get
out of here?’
‘That way,’ Zoë said. ‘That is west.’
‘How can you tell?’
In the light of the full moon, I was surprised how well I
could see her roll her eyes at me. ‘Ursa Major is in the
north,’ she said, ‘which means that must be west.’
She pointed west, then at the northern constellation,
which was hard to make out because there were so many
other stars.
‘Oh, yeah,’ I said. ‘The bear thing.’
Zoë looked oﬀended. ‘Show some respect. It was a ﬁne
bear. A worthy opponent.’
‘You act like it was real.’
‘Guys,’ Grover broke in. ‘Look!’
We’d reached the crest of a junk mountain. Piles of metal
objects glinted in the moonlight: broken heads of bronze
horses, metal legs from human statues, smashed chariots,
tons of shields and swords and other weapons, along with
more modern stuﬀ, like cars that gleamed gold and silver,
refrigerators, washing machines and computer monitors.
‘Whoa,’ Bianca said. ‘That stuﬀ… some of it looks like real
gold.’
‘It is,’ Thalia said grimly. ‘Like Percy said, don’t touch
anything. This is the junkyard of the gods.’
‘Junk?’ Grover picked up a beautiful crown made of gold,
silver and jewels. It was broken on one side, as if it had been
split by an axe. ‘You call this junk?’
703
He bit oﬀ a point and began to chew. ‘It’s delicious!’
Thalia swatted the crown out of his hands. ‘I’m serious!’
‘Look!’ Bianca said. She raced down the hill, tripping over
bronze coils and golden plates. She picked up a bow that
glowed silver in moonlight. ‘A Hunter’s bow!’
She yelped in surprise as the bow began to shrink, and
became a hair clip shaped like a crescent moon. ‘It’s just
like Percy’s sword!’
Zoë’s face was grim. ‘Leave it, Bianca.’
‘But –’
‘It is here for a reason. Anything thrown away in this
junkyard must stay in this yard. It is defective. Or cursed.’
Bianca reluctantly set the hair clip down.
‘I don’t like this place,’ Thalia said. She gripped the shaft
of her spear.
‘You think we’re going to get attacked by killer
refrigerators?’ I asked.
She gave me a hard look. ‘Zoë is right, Percy. Things get
thrown away here for a reason. Now come on, let’s get
across the yard.’
‘That’s the second time you’ve agreed with Zoë,’ I
muttered, but Thalia ignored me.
We started picking our way through the hills and valleys of
junk. The stuﬀ seemed to go on forever, and if it hadn’t
been for Ursa Major, we would’ve got lost. All the hills pretty
much looked the same.
I’d like to say we left the stuﬀ alone, but there was too
much cool junk not to check out some of it. I found an
electric guitar shaped like Apollo’s lyre that was so sweet I
had to pick it up. Grover found a broken tree made out of
metal. It had been chopped to pieces, but some of the
branches still had golden birds in them, and they whirred
around when Grover picked them up, trying to ﬂap their
wings.
Finally, we saw the edge of the junkyard about half a mile
ahead of us, the lights of a highway stretching through the
704
desert. But between us and the road…
‘What is that?’ Bianca gasped.
Ahead of us was a hill much bigger and longer than the
others. It was like a metal mesa, the length of a football ﬁeld
and as tall as goalposts. At one end of the mesa was a row
of ten thick metal columns, wedged tightly together.
Bianca frowned. ‘They look like –’
‘Toes,’ Grover said.
Bianca nodded. ‘Really, really large toes.’
Zoë and Thalia exchanged nervous looks.
‘Let’s go around,’ Thalia said. ‘Far around.’
‘But the road is right over there,’ I protested. ‘Quicker to
climb over.’
Ping.
Thalia hefted her spear and Zoë drew her bow, but then I
realized it was only Grover. He had thrown a piece of scrap
metal at the toes and hit one, making a deep echo, as if the
column were hollow.
‘Why did you do that?’ Zoë demanded.
Grover cringed. ‘I don’t know. I, uh, don’t like fake feet?’
‘Come on.’ Thalia looked at me. ‘Around.’
I didn’t argue. The toes were starting to freak me out, too.
I mean, who sculpts three-metre-tall metal toes and sticks
them in a junkyard?
After several minutes of walking, we ﬁnally stepped onto
the highway, an abandoned but well-lit stretch of black
tarmac.
‘We made it out,’ Zoë said. ‘Thank the gods.’
But apparently the gods didn’t want to be thanked. At that
moment I heard a sound like a thousand trash compactors
crushing metal.
I whirled round. Behind us, the scrap mountain was
boiling, rising up. The ten toes tilted over, and I realized why
they looked like toes. They were toes. The thing that rose up
from the metal was a bronze giant in full Greek battle
armour. He was impossibly tall – a skyscraper with legs and
705
arms. He gleamed wickedly in the moonlight. He looked
down at us, and his face was deformed. The left side was
partially melted oﬀ. His joints creaked with rust, and across
his armoured chest, written in thick dust by some giant
ﬁnger, were the words WASH ME.
‘Talos!’ Zoë gasped.
‘Who… who’s Talos?’ I stuttered.
‘One of Hephaestus’s creations,’ Thalia said. ‘But that
can’t be the original. It’s too small. A prototype, maybe. A
defective model.’
The metal giant didn’t like the word defective.
He moved one hand to his sword belt and drew his
weapon. The sound of it coming out of its sheath was
horrible, metal screeching against metal. The blade was
thirty metres long, easy. It looked rusty and dull, but I didn’t
ﬁgure that mattered. Getting hit with that thing would be
like getting hit with a battleship.
‘Someone 
took 
something,’ 
Zoë 
said. 
‘Who 
took
something?’
She stared accusingly at me.
I shook my head. ‘I’m a lot of things, but I’m not a thief.’
Bianca didn’t say anything. I could swear she looked
guilty, but I didn’t have much time to think about it,
because the giant defective Talos took one step towards us,
closing half the distance and making the ground shake.
‘Run!’ Grover yelped.
Great advice, except that it was hopeless. At a leisurely
stroll, this thing could outdistance us easily.
We split up, the way we’d done with the Nemean Lion.
Thalia drew her shield and held it up as she ran down the
highway. The giant swung his sword and took out a row of
power lines, which exploded in sparks and scattered across
Thalia’s path.
Zoë’s arrows whistled towards the creature’s face but
shattered harmlessly against the metal. Grover brayed like a
baby goat and went climbing up a mountain of metal.
706
Bianca and I ended up next to each other, hiding behind a
broken chariot.
‘You took something,’ I said. ‘That bow.’
‘No!’ she said, but her voice was quivering.
‘Give it back!’ I said. ‘Throw it down!’
‘I… I didn’t take the bow! Besides, it’s too late.’
‘What did you take?’
Before she could answer, I heard a massive creaking
noise, and a shadow blotted out the sky.
‘Move!’ I tore down the hill, Bianca right behind me, as the
giant’s foot smashed a crater in the ground where we’d
been hiding.
‘Hey, Talos!’ Grover yelled, but the monster raised his
sword, looking down at Bianca and me.
Grover played a quick melody on his pipes. Over at the
highway, the downed power lines began to dance. I
understood what Grover was going to do a split second
before it happened. One of the poles with power lines still
attached ﬂew towards Talos’s back leg and wrapped around
his calf. The lines sparked and sent a jolt of electricity up the
giant’s backside.
Talos whirled around, creaking and sparking. Grover had
bought us a few seconds.
‘Come on!’ I told Bianca. But she stayed frozen. From her
pocket, she brought out a small metal ﬁgurine, a statue of a
god. ‘It… it was for Nico. It was the only statue he didn’t
have.’
‘How can you think of Mythomagic at a time like this?’ I
said.
There were tears in her eyes.
‘Throw it down,’ I said. ‘Maybe the giant will leave us
alone.’
She dropped it reluctantly, but nothing happened.
The giant kept coming after Grover. It stabbed its sword
into a junk hill, missing Grover by a metre or so, but scrap
707
metal made an avalanche over him, and then I couldn’t see
him any more.
‘No!’ Thalia yelled. She pointed her spear, and a blue arc
of lightning shot out, hitting the monster in his rusty knee,
which buckled. The giant collapsed, but immediately started
to rise again. It was hard to tell if it could feel anything.
There weren’t any emotions in its half-melted face, but I got
the sense that it was about as ticked oﬀ as a twenty-storey-
tall metal warrior could be.
He raised his foot to stomp and I saw that his sole was
treaded like the bottom of a trainer. There was a hole in his
heel, like a large manhole, and there were red words
painted around it, which I deciphered only after the foot
came down: FOR MAINTENANCE ONLY.
‘Crazy-idea time,’ I said.
Bianca looked at me nervously. ‘Anything.’
I told her about the maintenance hatch. ‘There may be a
way to control the thing. Switches or something. I’m going
to get inside.’
‘How? You’ll have to stand under its foot! You’ll be
crushed.’
‘Distract it,’ I said. ‘I’ll just have to time it right.’
Bianca’s jaw tightened. ‘No. I’ll go.’
‘You can’t. You’re new at this! You’ll die.’
‘It’s my fault the monster came after us,’ she said. ‘It’s my
responsibility. Here.’ She picked up the little god statue and
pressed it into my hand. ‘If anything happens, give that to
Nico. Tell him… tell him I’m sorry.’
‘Bianca, no!’
But she wasn’t waiting for me. She charged at the
monster’s left foot.
Thalia had its attention for the moment. She’d learned
that the giant was big but slow. If you could stay close to it
and not get smashed, you could run around it and stay
alive. At least, it was working so far.
708
Bianca got right next to the giant’s foot, trying to balance
herself on the metal scraps that swayed and shifted with his
weight.
Zoë yelled, ‘What are you doing?’
‘Get it to raise its foot!’ she said.
Zoë shot an arrow towards the monster’s face and it ﬂew
straight into one nostril. The giant straightened and shook
its head.
‘Hey, Junk Boy!’ I yelled. ‘Down here.’
I ran up to its big toe and stabbed it with Riptide. The
magic blade cut a gash in the bronze.
Unfortunately, my plan worked. Talos looked down at me
and raised his foot to squash me like a bug. I didn’t see
what Bianca was doing. I had to turn and run. The foot came
down right behind me and I was knocked into the air. I hit
something hard and sat up, dazed. I’d been thrown into an
Olympus-Air refrigerator.
The monster was about to ﬁnish me oﬀ, but Grover
somehow dug himself out of the junk pile. He played his
pipes frantically, and his music sent another power line pole
whacking against Talos’s thigh. The monster turned. Grover
should’ve run, but he must’ve been too exhausted from the
eﬀort of so much magic. He took two steps, fell and didn’t
get back up.
‘Grover!’ Thalia and I both ran towards him, but I knew
we’d be too late.
The monster raised his sword to smash Grover. Then he
froze.
Talos cocked his head to one side, like he was hearing
strange new music. He started moving his arms and legs in
weird ways, doing the Funky Chicken. Then he made a ﬁst
and punched himself in the face.
‘Go, Bianca!’ I yelled.
Zoë looked horriﬁed. ‘She is inside?’
The monster staggered around, and I realized we were still
in danger. Thalia and I grabbed Grover and ran with him
709
towards the highway. Zoë was already ahead of us. She
yelled, ‘How will Bianca get out?’
The giant hit itself in the head again and dropped his
sword. A shudder ran through his whole body and he
staggered towards the power lines.
‘Look out!’ I yelled, but it was too late.
The giant’s ankle snared the lines, and blue ﬂickers of
electricity shot up his body. I hoped the inside was insulated.
I had no idea what was going on in there. The giant
careened back into the junkyard, and his right hand fell oﬀ,
landing in the scrap metal with a horrible CLANG!
His left arm came loose, too. He was falling apart at the
joints.
Talos began to run.
‘Wait!’ Zoë yelled. We ran after him, but there was no way
we could keep up. Pieces of the robot kept falling oﬀ, getting
in our way.
The giant crumbled from the top down: his head, pieces of
his chest, and ﬁnally his torso and legs collapsed. When we
reached the wreckage we searched frantically, yelling
Bianca’s name. We crawled around in the vast hollow chest
pieces and the legs and the torso. We searched until the sun
started to rise, but no luck.
Zoë sat down and wept. I was stunned to see her cry.
Thalia yelled in rage and impaled her sword in the giant’s
smashed face.
‘We can keep searching,’ I said. ‘It’s light now. We’ll ﬁnd
her.’
‘No we won’t,’ Grover said miserably. ‘It happened just as
it was supposed to.’
‘What are you talking about?’ I demanded.
He looked up at me with big watery eyes. ‘The prophecy.
One shall be lost in the land without rain.’
Why hadn’t I seen it? Why had I let her go instead of me?
Here we were in the desert. And Bianca di Angelo was
gone.
710
14    I Have A Dam Problem
 
At the edge of the dump, we found a tow truck so old it
might’ve been thrown away itself. But the engine started,
and it had a full tank of fuel, so we decided to borrow it.
Thalia drove. She didn’t seem as stunned as Zoë or Grover
or me.
‘The skeletons are still out there,’ she reminded us. ‘We
need to keep moving.’
She navigated us through the desert, under clear blue
skies, the sand so bright it hurt to look at it. Zoë sat up front
with Thalia. Grover and I sat in the back, leaning against the
tow winch. The air was cool and dry, but the nice weather
just seemed like an insult after losing Bianca.
My hand closed around the little ﬁgurine that had cost
Bianca her life. I still couldn’t even tell what god it was
supposed to be. Nico would know.
Oh, gods… what was I going to tell Nico?
I wanted to believe that Bianca was still alive somewhere.
But I had a bad feeling that she was gone for good.
‘It should’ve been me,’ I said. ‘I should’ve gone into the
giant.’
‘Don’t say that!’ Grover panicked. ‘It’s bad enough
Annabeth is gone, and now Bianca. Do you think I could
stand it if…’ He sniﬄed. ‘Do you think anybody else would
be my best friend?’
‘Ah, Grover…’
He wiped under his eyes with an oily cloth that left his
face grimy like he had war paint on. ‘I’m… I’m okay.’
711
But he wasn’t okay. Ever since the encounter in New
Mexico – whatever had happened when that wild wind blew
through – he seemed really fragile, even more emotional
than usual. I was afraid to talk to him about it, because he
might start bawling.
At least there’s one good thing about having a friend who
gets freaked out more than you do. I realized I couldn’t stay
depressed. I had to set aside thinking about Bianca and
keep us going forward, the way Thalia was doing. I
wondered what she and Zoë were talking about in the front
of the truck.
The tow truck ran out of fuel at the edge of a river canyon.
That was just as well, because the road dead-ended.
Thalia got out and slammed the door. Immediately, one of
the tyres blew. ‘Great. What now?’
I scanned the horizon. There wasn’t much to see. Desert
in all directions, occasional clumps of barren mountains
plopped here and there. The canyon was the only thing
interesting. The river itself wasn’t very big, maybe ﬁfty
metres across, green water with a few rapids, but it carved
a huge scar out of the desert. The rock cliﬀs dropped away
below us.
‘There’s a path,’ Grover said. ‘We could get to the river.’
I tried to see what he was talking about, and ﬁnally
noticed a tiny ledge winding down the cliﬀ face. ‘That’s a
goat path,’ I said.
‘So?’ he asked.
‘The rest of us aren’t goats.’
‘We can make it,’ Grover said. ‘I think.’
I thought about that. I’d done cliﬀs before, but I didn’t like
them. Then I looked over at Thalia and saw how pale she’d
got. Her problem with heights… she’d never be able to do it.
‘No,’ I said. ‘I, uh, think we should go further upstream.’
Grover said, ‘But –’
‘Come on,’ I said. ‘A walk won’t hurt us.’
712
I glanced at Thalia. Her eyes said a quick Thank you.
We followed the river for about half a mile before coming
to an easier slope that led down to the water. On the shore
was a canoe rental operation that was closed for the season,
but I left a stack of golden drachma on the counter and a
note saying I.O.U. two canoes.
‘We need to go upstream,’ Zoë said. It was the ﬁrst time
I’d heard her speak since the junkyard, and I was worried
about how bad she sounded, like somebody with the ﬂu.
‘The rapids are too swift.’
‘Leave that to me,’ I said. We put the canoes in the water.
Thalia pulled me aside as we were getting the oars.
‘Thanks for back there.’
‘Don’t mention it.’
‘Can you really…’ She nodded to the rapids. ‘You know.’
‘I think so. Usually I’m good with water.’
‘Would you take Zoë?’ she asked. ‘I think, ah, maybe you
can talk to her.’
‘She’s not going to like that.’
‘Please? I don’t know if I can stand being in the same boat
with her. She’s… she’s starting to worry me.’
It was about the last thing I wanted to do, but I nodded.
Thalia’s shoulders relaxed. ‘I owe you one.’
‘Two.’
‘One and a half,’ Thalia said.
She smiled and, for a second, I remembered that I actually
liked her when she wasn’t yelling at me. She turned and
helped Grover get their canoe into the water.
As it turned out, I didn’t even need to control the currents.
As soon as we got in the river, I looked over the edge of the
boat and found a couple of naiads staring at me.
They looked like regular teenage girls, the kind you’d see
in any mall, except for the fact that they were underwater.
Hey, I said.
They made a bubbling sound that may have been
giggling. I wasn’t sure. I had a hard time understanding
713
naiads.
We’re heading upstream, I told them. Do you think you
could –
Before I could even ﬁnish, the naiads each chose a canoe
and began pushing us up the river. We started so fast
Grover fell into his canoe with his hooves sticking up in the
air.
‘I hate naiads,’ Zoë grumbled.
A stream of water squirted up from the back of the boat
and hit Zoë in the face.
‘She-devils!’ Zoë went for her bow.
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘They’re just playing.’
‘Cursed water spirits. They’ve never forgiven me.’
‘Forgiven you for what?’
She slung her bow back over her shoulder. ‘It was a long
time ago. Never mind.’
We sped up the river, the cliﬀs looming up on either side
of us.
‘What happened to Bianca wasn’t your fault,’ I told her. ‘It
was my fault. I let her go.’
I ﬁgured this would give Zoë an excuse to start yelling at
me. At least that might shake her out of feeling depressed.
Instead, her shoulders slumped. ‘No, Percy. I pushed her
into going on the quest. I was too anxious. She was a
powerful half-blood. She had a kind heart, as well. I… I
thought she would be the next lieutenant.’
‘But you’re the lieutenant.’
She gripped the strap of her quiver. She looked more tired
than I’d ever seen her. ‘Nothing can last forever, Percy. Over
two thousand years I have led the Hunt, and my wisdom has
not improved. Now Artemis herself is in danger.’
‘Look, you can’t blame yourself for that.’
‘If I had insisted on going with her –’
‘You think you could’ve fought something powerful enough
to kidnap Artemis? There’s nothing you could have done.’
Zoë didn’t answer.
714
The cliﬀs along the river were getting taller. Long shadows
fell across the water, making it a lot colder, even though the
day was bright.
Without thinking about it, I took Riptide out of my pocket.
Zoë looked at the pen, and her expression was pained.
‘You made this,’ I said.
‘Who told thee?’
‘I had a dream about it.’
She studied me. I was sure she was going to call me
crazy, but she just sighed. ‘It was a gift. And a mistake.’
‘Who was the hero?’ I asked.
Zoë shook her head. ‘Do not make me say his name. I
swore never to speak it again.’
‘You act like I should know him.’
‘I am sure you do, hero. Don’t all you boys want to be just
like him?’
Her voice was so bitter, I decided not to ask what she
meant. I looked down at Riptide and, for the ﬁrst time, I
wondered if it was cursed.
‘Your mother was a water goddess?’ I asked.
‘Yes, Pleoine. She had ﬁve daughters. My sisters and I. The
Hesperides.’
‘Those were the girls who lived in a garden at the edge of
the West. With the golden apple tree, and a dragon guarding
it.’
‘Yes,’ Zoë said wistfully. ‘Ladon.’
‘But weren’t there only four sisters?’
‘There are now. I was exiled. Forgotten. Blotted out as if I
never existed.’
‘Why?’
Zoë pointed to my pen. ‘Because I betrayed my family
and helped a hero. You won’t ﬁnd that in the legend either.
He never spoke of me. After his direct assault on Ladon
failed, I gave him the idea of how to steal the apples, how to
trick my father, but he took all the credit.’
‘But –’
715
Gurgle, gurgle, the naiad spoke in my mind. The canoe
was slowing down.
I looked ahead, and I saw why.
This was as far as they could take us. The river was
blocked. A dam the size of a football stadium stood in our
path.
‘Hoover Dam,’ Thalia said. ‘It’s huge.’
We stood at the river’s edge, looking up at a curve of
concrete that loomed between the cliﬀs. People were
walking along the top of the dam. They were so tiny they
looked like ﬂeas.
The naiads had left with a lot of grumbling – not in words I
could understand, but it was obvious they hated this dam
blocking up their nice river. Our canoes ﬂoated back
downstream, swirling in the wake from the dam’s discharge
vents.
‘Over two hundred metres tall,’ I said. ‘Built in the 1930s.’
‘Five million cubic acres of water,’ Thalia said.
Grover sighed. ‘Largest construction project in the United
States.’
Zoë stared at us. ‘How do you know all that?’
‘Annabeth,’ I said. ‘She liked architecture.’
‘She was nuts about monuments,’ Thalia said.
‘Spouted facts all the time.’ Grover sniﬄed. ‘So annoying.’
‘I wish she were here,’ I said.
The others nodded. Zoë was still looking at us strangely,
but I didn’t care. It seemed like cruel fate that we’d come to
Hoover Dam, one of Annabeth’s personal favourites, and
she wasn’t here to see it.
‘We should go up there,’ I said. ‘For her sake. Just to say
we’ve been.’
‘You are mad,’ Zoë decided. ‘But that’s where the road is.’
She pointed to a huge parking garage next to the top of the
dam. ‘And so sightseeing it is.’
716
We had to walk for almost an hour before we found a path
that led up to the road. It came up on the east side of the
river. Then we straggled back towards the dam. It was cold
and windy on top. On one side, a big lake spread out, ringed
by barren desert mountains. On the other side, the dam
dropped away like the world’s most dangerous skateboard
ramp, down to the river more than two hundred metres
below, and water that churned from the dam’s vents.
Thalia walked in the middle of the road, far away from the
edges. Grover kept sniﬃng the wind and looking nervous.
He didn’t say anything, but I knew he smelled monsters.
‘How close are they?’ I asked him.
He shook his head. ‘Maybe not close. The wind on the
dam, the desert all around us… the scent can probably carry
for miles. But it’s coming from several directions. I don’t like
that.’
I didn’t either. It was already Wednesday, only two days
until winter solstice, and we still had a long way to go. We
didn’t need any more monsters.
‘There’s a snack bar in the visitor centre,’ Thalia said.
‘You’ve been here before?’ I asked.
‘Once. To see the guardians.’ She pointed to the far end of
the dam. Carved into the side of the cliﬀ was a little plaza
with two big bronze statues. They looked kind of like Oscar
statues with wings.
‘They were dedicated to Zeus when the dam was built,’
Thalia said. ‘A gift from Athena.’
Tourists were clustered all around them. They seemed to
be looking at the statues’ feet.
‘What are they doing?’ I asked.
‘Rubbing the toes,’ Thalia said. ‘They think it’s good luck.’
‘Why?’
She shook her head. ‘Mortals get crazy ideas. They don’t
know the statues are sacred to Zeus, but they know there’s
something special about them.’
717
‘When you were here last, did they talk to you or
anything?’
Thalia’s expression darkened. I could tell that she’d come
here before hoping for exactly that – some kind of sign from
her dad. Some connection. ‘No. They don’t do anything.
They’re just big metal statues.’
I thought about the last big metal statue we’d run into.
That hadn’t gone so well. But I decided not to bring it up.
‘Let us ﬁnd the dam snack bar,’ Zoë said. ‘We should eat
while we can.’
Grover cracked a smile. ‘The dam snack bar?’
Zoë blinked. ‘Yes. What is funny?’
‘Nothing,’ Grover said, trying to keep a straight face. ‘I
could use some dam French fries.’
Even Thalia smiled at that. ‘And I need to use the dam
restroom.’
Maybe it was the fact that we were so tired and strung out
emotionally, but I started cracking up, and Thalia and
Grover joined in, while Zoë just looked at us. ‘I do not
understand.’
‘I want to use the dam water fountain,’ Grover said.
‘And…’ Thalia tried to catch her breath. ‘I want to buy a
dam T-shirt.’
I cracked up, and I probably would’ve kept laughing all
day, but then I heard a noise:
‘Moooo.’
The smile melted oﬀ my face. I wondered if the noise was
just in my head, but Grover had stopped laughing, too. He
was looking around, confused. ‘Did I just hear a cow?’
‘A dam cow?’ Thalia laughed.
‘No,’ Grover said. ‘I’m serious.’
Zoë listened. ‘I hear nothing.’
Thalia was looking at me. ‘Percy, are you okay?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘You guys go ahead. I’ll be right in.’
‘What’s wrong?’ Grover asked.
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘I… I just need a minute. To think.’
718
They hesitated, but I guess I must’ve looked upset,
because they ﬁnally went into the visitor centre without me.
As soon as they were gone, I jogged to the north edge of the
dam and looked over.
‘Moo.’
She was about ten metres below in the lake, but I could
see her clearly: my friend from Long Island Sound, Bessie
the cow serpent.
I looked around. There were groups of kids running along
the dam. A lot of senior citizens. Some families. But nobody
seemed to be paying Bessie any attention yet.
‘What are you doing here?’ I asked her.
‘Moo!’
Her voice was urgent, like she was trying to warn me of
something.
‘How did you get here?’ I asked. We were thousands of
miles from Long Island, hundreds of miles inland. There was
no way she could’ve swum all the way here. And yet, here
she was.
Bessie swam in a circle and butted her head against the
side of the dam. ‘Moo!’
She wanted me to come with her. She was telling me to
hurry.
‘I can’t,’ I told her. ‘My friends are inside.’
She looked at me with her sad brown eyes. Then she gave
one more urgent ‘Moo!,’ did a ﬂip and disappeared into the
water.
I hesitated. Something was wrong. She was trying to tell
me that. I considered jumping over the side and following
her, but then I tensed. The hairs on my arms bristled. I
looked down the dam road to the east and I saw two men
walking slowly towards me. They wore grey camouﬂage
outﬁts that ﬂickered over skeletal bodies.
They passed through a group of kids and pushed them
aside. A kid yelled, ‘Hey!’ One of the warriors turned, his
face changing momentarily into a skull.
719
‘Ah!’ the kid yelled, and his whole group backed away.
I ran for the visitor centre.
I was almost at the stairs when I heard tyres squeal. On
the west side of the dam, a black van swerved to a stop in
the middle of the road, nearly ploughing into some old
people.
The van doors opened and more skeleton warriors piled
out. I was surrounded.
I bolted down the stairs and through the museum
entrance. The security guard at the metal-detector yelled,
‘Hey, kid!’ But I didn’t stop.
I ran through the exhibits and ducked behind a tour group.
I looked for my friends, but I couldn’t see them anywhere.
Where was the dam snack bar?
‘Stop!’ The metal detector guy yelled.
There was no place to go but into an elevator with the
tour group. I ducked inside just as the door closed.
‘We’ll be going down two hundred and twenty-two
metres,’ our tour guide said cheerfully. She was a park
ranger, with long black hair pulled back in a ponytail and
tinted glasses. I guess she hadn’t noticed that I was being
chased. ‘Don’t worry, ladies and gentlemen, the elevator
hardly ever breaks.’
‘Does this go to the snack bar?’ I asked her.
A few people behind me chuckled. The tour guide looked
at me. Something about her gaze made my skin tingle.
‘To the turbines, young man,’ the lady said. ‘Weren’t you
listening to my fascinating presentation upstairs?’
‘Oh, uh, sure. Is there another way out of the dam?’
‘It’s a dead end,’ a tourist behind me said. ‘For heaven’s
sake. The only way out is the other elevator.’
The doors opened.
‘Go right ahead, folks,’ the tour guide told us. ‘Another
ranger is waiting for you at the end of the corridor.’
I didn’t have much choice but to go out with the group.
720
‘And, young man,’ the tour guide called. I looked back.
She’d taken oﬀ her glasses. Her eyes were startlingly grey,
like storm clouds. ‘There is always a way out for those
clever enough to ﬁnd it.’
The doors closed with the tour guide still inside, leaving
me alone.
Before I could think too much about the woman in the
elevator, a ding came from round the corner. The second
elevator was opening, and I heard an unmistakable sound –
the clattering of skeleton teeth.
I ran after the tour group, through a tunnel carved out of
solid rock. It seemed to run forever. The walls were moist,
and the air hummed with electricity and the roar of water. I
came out on a U-shaped balcony that overlooked this huge
warehouse area. Fifteen metres below, enormous turbines
were running. It was a big room, but I didn’t see any other
exit, unless I wanted to jump into the turbines and get
churned up to make electricity. I didn’t.
Another tour guide was talking over the microphone,
telling the tourists about water supplies in Nevada. I prayed
that Thalia, Zoë and Grover were okay. They might already
be captured, or eating at the snack bar, completely unaware
that we were being surrounded. And stupid me: I had
trapped myself in a hole a couple of hundred metres below
the surface.
I worked my way around the crowd, trying not to be too
obvious about it. There was a hallway at the other side of
the balcony – maybe some place I could hide. I kept my
hand on Riptide, ready to strike.
By the time I got to the opposite side of the balcony, my
nerves were shot. I backed into the little hallway and
watched the tunnel I’d come from.
Then right behind me I heard a sharp Chhh! like the voice
of a skeleton.
Without thinking, I uncapped Riptide and spun, slashing
with my sword.
721
The girl I’d just tried to slice in half yelped and dropped
her Kleenex.
‘Oh my god!’ she shouted. ‘Do you always kill people
when they blow their nose?’
The ﬁrst thing that went through my head was that the
sword hadn’t hurt her. It had passed clean through her body,
harmlessly. ‘You’re mortal!’
She looked at me in disbelief. ‘What’s that supposed to
mean? Of course I’m mortal! How did you get that sword
past security?’
‘I didn’t – Wait, you can see it’s a sword?’
The girl rolled her eyes, which were green like mine. She
had frizzy reddish-brown hair. Her nose was also red, like
she had a cold. She wore a big maroon Harvard sweatshirt
and jeans that were covered with marker stains and little
holes, like she spent her free time poking them with a fork.
‘Well, it’s either a sword or the biggest toothpick in the
world,’ she said. ‘And why didn’t it hurt me? I mean, not that
I’m complaining. Who are you? And, whoa, what is that
you’re wearing? Is that made of lion fur?’
She asked so many questions so fast, it was like she was
throwing rocks at me. I couldn’t think of what to say. I
looked at my sleeves to see if the Nemean Lion pelt had
somehow changed back to fur, but it still looked like a brown
winter coat to me.
I knew the skeleton warriors were still chasing me. I had
no time to waste. But I just stared at the redheaded girl.
Then I remembered what Thalia had done at Westover Hall
to fool the teachers. Maybe I could manipulate the Mist.
I concentrated hard and snapped my ﬁngers. ‘You don’t
see a sword,’ I told the girl. ‘It’s just a ballpoint pen.’
She blinked. ‘Um… no. It’s a sword, weirdo.’
‘Who are you?’ I demanded.
She huﬀed indignantly. ‘Rachel Elizabeth Dare. Now, are
you going to answer my questions or should I scream for
security?’
722
‘No!’ I said. ‘I mean, I’m kind of in a hurry. I’m in trouble.’
‘In a hurry or in trouble?’
‘Um, sort of both.’
She looked over my shoulder and her eyes widened.
‘Bathroom!’
‘What?’
‘Bathroom! Behind me! Now!’
I don’t know why, but I listened to her. I slipped inside the
boy’s bathroom and left Rachel Elizabeth Dare standing
outside. Later, that seemed cowardly to me. I’m also pretty
sure it saved my life.
I heard the clattering, hissing sounds of skeletons as they
came closer.
My grip tightened on Riptide. What was I thinking? I’d left
a mortal girl out there to die. I was preparing to burst out
and ﬁght when Rachel Elizabeth Dare started talking in that
rapid-ﬁre machine gun way of hers.
‘Oh my god! Did you see that kid? It’s about time you got
here. He tried to kill me! He had a sword, for god’s sake. You
security guys let a sword-swinging lunatic inside a national
landmark? I mean, jeez! He ran that way towards those
turbine thingies. I think he went over the side or something.
Maybe he fell.’
The skeletons clattered excitedly. I heard them moving oﬀ.
Rachel opened the door. ‘All clear. But you’d better hurry.’
She looked shaken. Her face was grey and sweaty.
I peeked round the corner. Three skeleton warriors were
running towards the other end of the balcony. The way to
the elevator was clear for a few seconds.
‘I owe you one, Rachel Elizabeth Dare.’
‘What are those things?’ she asked. ‘They looked like –’
‘Skeletons?’
She nodded uneasily.
‘Do yourself a favour,’ I said. ‘Forget it. Forget you ever
saw me.’
‘Forget you tried to kill me?’
723
‘Yeah. That, too.’
‘But who are you?’
‘Percy –’ I started to say. Then the skeletons turned round.
‘Gotta go!’
‘What kind of name is Percy Gotta-go?’
I bolted for the exit.
The café was packed with kids enjoying the best part of the
tour – the dam lunch. Thalia, Zoë and Grover were just
sitting down with their food.
‘We need to leave,’ I gasped. ‘Now!’
‘But we just got our burritos!’ Thalia said.
Zoë stood up, muttering an Ancient Greek curse. ‘He’s
right! Look.’
The café windows wrapped all the way round the
observation ﬂoor, which gave us a beautiful panoramic view
of the skeletal army that had come to kill us.
I counted two on the east side of the dam road, blocking
the way to Arizona. Three more on the west side, guarding
Nevada. All of them were armed with batons and pistols.
But our immediate problem was a lot closer. The three
skeleton warriors who’d been chasing me in the turbine
room now appeared on the stairs. They saw me from across
the cafeteria and clattered their teeth.
‘Elevator!’ Grover said. We bolted in that direction, but the
doors opened with a pleasant ding, and three more warriors
stepped out. Every warrior was accounted for, minus the
one Bianca had blasted to ﬂames in New Mexico. We were
completely surrounded.
Then Grover had a brilliant, totally Grover-like idea.
‘Burrito ﬁght!’ he yelled, and ﬂung his Guacamole Grande
at the nearest skeleton.
Now, if you have never been hit by a ﬂying burrito, count
yourself lucky. In terms of deadly projectiles, it’s right up
there with grenades and cannonballs. Grover’s lunch hit the
skeleton and knocked his skull clean oﬀ his shoulders. I’m
724
not sure what the other kids in the café saw, but they went
crazy and started throwing their burritos and baskets of
chips and sodas at each other, shrieking and screaming.
The skeletons tried to aim their guns, but it was hopeless.
Bodies and food and drinks were ﬂying everywhere.
In the chaos, Thalia and I tackled the other two skeletons
on the stairs and sent them ﬂying into the condiment table.
Then we all raced downstairs, Guacamole Grandes whizzing
past our heads.
‘What now?’ Grover asked as we burst outside.
I didn’t have an answer. The warriors on the road were
closing in from either direction. We ran across the street to
the plaza with the winged bronze statues, but that just put
our backs to the mountain.
The skeletons moved forward, forming a crescent round
us. Their brethren from the café were running up to join
them. One was still putting its skull back on its shoulders.
Another was covered in ketchup and mustard. Two more had
burritos lodged in their ribcages. They didn’t look happy
about it. They drew batons and advanced.
‘Four against eleven,’ Zoë muttered. ‘And they cannot
die.’
‘It’s been nice adventuring with you guys,’ Grover said, his
voice trembling.
Something shiny caught the corner of my eye. I glanced
behind me at the statues’ feet. ‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Their toes
really are bright.’
‘Percy!’ Thalia said. ‘This isn’t the time.’
But I couldn’t help staring at the two giant bronze guys
with tall bladed wings like letter openers. They were
weathered brown except for their toes, which shone like new
pennies from all the times people had rubbed them for good
luck.
Good luck. The blessing of Zeus.
I thought about the tour guide in the elevator. Her grey
eyes and her smile. What had she said? There is always a
725
way for those clever enough to ﬁnd it.
‘Thalia,’ I said. ‘Pray to your dad.’
She glared at me. ‘He never answers.’
‘Just this once,’ I pleaded. ‘Ask for help. I think… I think
the statues can give us some luck.’
Six skeletons raised their guns. The other ﬁve came
forward with batons. Fifteen metres away. Ten metres.
‘Do it!’ I yelled.
‘No!’ Thalia said. ‘He won’t answer me.’
‘This time is diﬀerent!’
‘Who says?’
I hesitated. ‘Athena, I think.’
Thalia scowled like she was sure I’d gone crazy.
‘Try it,’ Grover pleaded.
Thalia closed her eyes. Her lips moved in a silent prayer. I
put in my own prayer to Annabeth’s mom, hoping I was
right that it had been her in that elevator – that she was
trying to help us save her daughter.
And nothing happened.
The skeletons closed in. I raised Riptide to defend myself.
Thalia held up her shield. Zoë pushed Grover behind her and
aimed an arrow at a skeleton’s head.
A shadow fell over me. I thought maybe it was the shadow
of death. Then I realized it was the shadow of an enormous
wing. The skeletons looked up too late. A ﬂash of bronze,
and all ﬁve of the baton-wielders were swept aside.
The other skeletons opened ﬁre. I raised my lion coat for
protection, but I didn’t need it. The bronze angels stepped in
front of us and folded their wings like shields. Bullets pinged
oﬀ them like rain oﬀ a corrugated roof. Both angels slashed
outwards, and the skeletons went ﬂying across the road.
‘Man, it feels good to stand up!’ the ﬁrst angel said. His
voice sounded tinny and rusty, like he hadn’t had a drink
since he’d been built.
‘Will ya look at my toes?’ the other said. ‘Holy Zeus, what
were those tourists thinking?’
726
As stunned as I was by the angels, I was more concerned
with the skeletons. A few of them were getting up again,
reassembling, bony hands groping for their weapons.
‘Trouble!’ I said.
‘Get us out of here!’ Thalia yelled.
Both angels looked down at her. ‘Zeus’s kid?’
‘Yes!’
‘Could I get a please, Miss Zeus’s Kid?’ an angel asked.
‘Please!’
The angels looked at each other and shrugged.
‘Could use a stretch,’ one decided.
And the next thing I knew, one of them grabbed Thalia
and me, the other grabbed Zoë and Grover, and we ﬂew
straight up, over the dam and the river, the skeleton
warriors shrinking to tiny specks below us and the sound of
gunﬁre echoing oﬀ the sides of the mountains.
727
15    I Wrestle Santa’s Evil Twin
 
‘Tell me when it’s over,’ Thalia said. Her eyes were shut
tight. The statue was holding onto us so we couldn’t fall, but
still Thalia clutched his arm like it was the most important
thing in the world.
‘Everything’s ﬁne,’ I promised.
‘Are… are we very high?’
I looked down. Below us, a range of snowy mountains
zipped by. I stretched out my foot and kicked snow oﬀ one
of the peaks.
‘Nah,’ I said. ‘Not that high.’
‘We are in the Sierras!’ Zoë yelled. She and Grover were
hanging from the arms of the other statue. ‘I have hunted
here before. At this speed, we should be in San Francisco in
a few hours.’
‘Hey, hey, Frisco!’ our angel said. ‘Yo, Chuck! We could
visit those guys at the Mechanics Monument again! They
know how to party!’
‘Oh, man,’ the other angel said. ‘I am so there!’
‘You guys have visited San Francisco?’ I asked.
‘We automatons gotta have some fun once in a while,
right?’ our statue said. ‘Those mechanics took us over to the
de Young Museum and introduced us to these marble lady
statues, see. And –’
‘Hank!’ the other statue Chuck cut in. ‘They’re kids, man.’
‘Oh, right.’ If bronze statues could blush, I swear Hank did.
‘Back to ﬂying.’
We sped up, so I could tell the angels were excited. The
mountains fell away into hills, and then we were zipping
728
along over farmland and towns and highways.
Grover played his pipes to pass the time. Zoë got bored
and started shooting arrows at random billboards as we ﬂew
by. Every time she saw a Target department store – and we
passed dozens of them – she would peg the store’s sign with
a few bullseyes at a hundred miles an hour.
Thalia kept her eyes closed the whole way. She muttered
to herself a lot, like she was praying.
‘You did good back there,’ I told her. ‘Zeus listened.’
It was hard to tell what she was thinking with her eyes
closed.
‘Maybe,’ she said. ‘How did you get away from the
skeletons in the generator room, anyway? You said they
cornered you.’
I told her about the weird mortal girl, Rachel Elizabeth
Dare, who seemed to be able to see right through the Mist. I
thought Thalia was going to call me crazy, but she just
nodded.
‘Some mortals are like that,’ she said. ‘Nobody knows
why.’
Suddenly I ﬂashed on something I’d never considered. My
mom was like that. She had seen the Minotaur on Half-Blood
Hill and known exactly what it was. She hadn’t been
surprised at all last year when I’d told her my friend Tyson
was really a Cyclops. Maybe she’d known all along. No
wonder she’d been so scared for me as I was growing up.
She saw through the Mist even better than I did.
‘Well, the girl was annoying,’ I said. ‘But I’m glad I didn’t
vaporize her. That would’ve been bad.’
Thalia nodded. ‘Must be nice to be a regular mortal.’
She said that as if she’d given it a lot of thought.
‘Where you guys want to land?’ Hank asked, waking me
from a night of ﬁtful sleep.
I looked down and said, ‘Whoa.’
729
I’d seen San Francisco in pictures before, but never in real
life. It was probably the most beautiful city I’d ever seen:
kind of like a smaller, cleaner Manhattan, if Manhattan had
been surrounded by green hills and fog. There was a huge
bay and ships, islands and sailboats, and the Golden Gate
Bridge sticking up out of the fog. I felt like I should take a
picture or something. Greetings from Frisco. Haven’t Died
Yet. Wish You Were Here.
‘There,’ Zoë suggested. ‘By the Embarcadero Building.’
‘Good thinking,’ Chuck said. ‘Me and Hank can blend in
with the pigeons.’
We all looked at him.
‘Kidding,’ he said. ‘Sheesh, can’t statues have a sense of
humour?’
As it turned out, there wasn’t much need to blend in. It
was early morning and not many people were around. We
freaked out a homeless guy on the ferry dock when we
landed. He screamed when he saw Hank and Chuck and ran
oﬀ yelling something about metal angels from Mars.
We said our goodbyes to the angels, who ﬂew oﬀ to party
with their statue friends. That’s when I realized I had no idea
what we were going to do next.
We’d made it to the West Coast. Artemis was here
somewhere. Annabeth, too, I hoped. But I had no idea how
to ﬁnd them, and tomorrow was the winter solstice. Nor did I
have any clue what monster Artemis had been hunting. It
was supposed to ﬁnd us on the quest. It was supposed to
‘show the trail’, but it never had. Now we were stuck on the
ferry dock with not much money, no friends and no luck.
After a brief discussion, we agreed that we needed to
ﬁgure out just what this mystery monster was.
‘But how?’ I asked.
‘Nereus,’ Grover said.
I looked at him. ‘What?’
‘Isn’t that what Apollo told you to do? Find Nereus?’
730
I nodded. I’d completely forgotten my last conversation
with the sun god.
‘The old man of the sea,’ I remembered. ‘I’m supposed to
ﬁnd him and force him to tell us what he knows. But how do
I ﬁnd him?’
Zoë made a face. ‘Old Nereus, eh?’
‘You know him?’ Thalia asked.
‘My mother was a sea goddess. Yes, I know him.
Unfortunately, he is never very hard to ﬁnd. Just follow the
smell.’
‘What do you mean?’ I asked.
‘Come,’ she said, without enthusiasm. ‘I will show thee.’
I knew I was in trouble when we stopped at the Goodwill
drop box. Five minutes later, Zoë had me outﬁtted in a
ragged ﬂannel shirt and jeans three sizes too big, bright red
trainers and a ﬂoppy rainbow hat.
‘Oh, yeah,’ Grover said, trying not to burst out laughing,
‘you look completely inconspicuous now.’
Zoë nodded with satisfaction. ‘A typical male vagrant.’
‘Thanks a lot,’ I grumbled. ‘Why am I doing this again?’
‘I told thee. To blend in.’
She led the way back down to the waterfront. After a long
time spent searching the docks, Zoë ﬁnally stopped in her
tracks. She pointed down a pier where a bunch of homeless
guys were huddled together in blankets, waiting for the
soup kitchen to open for lunch.
‘He will be down there somewhere,’ Zoë said. ‘He never
travels very far from the water. He likes to sun himself
during the day.’
‘How do I know which one is him?’
‘Sneak up,’ she said. ‘Act homeless. You will know him. He
will smell… diﬀerent.’
‘Great.’ I didn’t want to ask for particulars. ‘And once I ﬁnd
him?’
731
‘Grab him,’ she said. ‘And hold on. He will try anything to
get rid of thee. Whatever he does, do not let go. Force him
to tell thee about the monster.’
‘We’ve got your back,’ Thalia said. She picked something
oﬀ the back of my shirt – a big clump of fuzz that came from
who knows where. ‘Eww. On second thought… I don’t want
your back. But we’ll be rooting for you.’
Grover gave me a big thumbs-up.
I grumbled how nice it was to have super-powerful friends.
Then I headed towards the dock.
I pulled my cap down and stumbled like I was about to
pass out, which wasn’t hard considering how tired I was. I
passed our homeless friend from the Embarcadero, who was
still trying to warn the other guys about the metal angels
from Mars.
He didn’t smell good, but he didn’t smell… diﬀerent. I kept
walking.
A couple of grimy dudes with plastic grocery bags for hats
checked me out as I came close.
‘Beat it, kid!’ one of them muttered.
I moved away. They smelled pretty bad, but just regular
old bad. Nothing unusual.
There was a lady with a bunch of plastic ﬂamingos
sticking out of a shopping cart. She glared at me like I was
going to steal her birds.
At the end of the pier, a guy who looked about a million
years old was passed out in a patch of sunlight. He wore
pyjamas and a fuzzy bathrobe that probably used to be
white. He was fat, with a white beard that had turned
yellow, kind of like Santa Claus, if Santa had been rolled out
of bed and dragged through a landﬁll.
And his smell?
As I got closer, I froze. He smelled bad, all right – but
ocean bad. Like hot seaweed and dead ﬁsh and brine. If the
ocean had an ugly side… this guy was it.
732
I tried not to gag. I sat down near him like I was tired.
Santa opened one eye suspiciously. I could feel him staring
at me, but I didn’t look. I muttered something about stupid
school and stupid parents, ﬁguring that might sound
reasonable.
Santa Claus went back to sleep.
I tensed. I knew this was going to look strange. I didn’t
know how the other homeless people would react. But I
jumped Santa Claus.
‘Ahhhhh!’ he screamed. I meant to grab him, but he
seemed to grab me instead. It was as if he’d never been
asleep at all. He certainly didn’t act like a weak old man. He
had a grip like steel. ‘Help me!’ he screamed as he
squeezed me to death.
‘That’s a crime!’ one of the other homeless guys yelled.
‘Kid rolling an old man like that!’
I rolled, all right – straight down the pier until my head
slammed into a post. I was dazed for a second, and Nereus’s
grip slackened. He was making a break for it. Before he
could, I regained my senses and tackled him from behind.
‘I don’t have any money!’ He tried to get up and run, but I
locked my arms round his chest. His rotten ﬁsh smell was
awful, but I held on.
‘I don’t want money,’ I said as he fought. ‘I’m a half-blood!
I want information!’
That just made him struggle harder. ‘Heroes! Why do you
always pick on me?’
‘Because you know everything!’
He growled and tried to shake me oﬀ his back. It was like
holding on to a roller coaster. He thrashed around, making it
impossible for me to keep on my feet, but I gritted my teeth
and squeezed tighter. We staggered towards the edge of the
pier and I got an idea.
‘Oh, no!’ I said. ‘Not the water!’
The plan worked. Immediately, Nereus yelled in triumph
and jumped oﬀ the edge. Together, we plunged into San
733
Francisco Bay.
He must’ve been surprised when I tightened my grip, the
ocean ﬁlling me with extra strength. But Nereus had a few
tricks left, too. He changed shape until I was holding a sleek
black seal.
I’ve heard people make jokes about trying to hold a
greased pig but, I’m telling you, holding onto a seal in the
water is harder. Nereus plunged straight down, wriggling
and thrashing and spiralling through the dark water. If I
hadn’t been Poseidon’s son, there’s no way I could’ve
stayed with him.
Nereus spun and expanded, turning into a killer whale, but
I grabbed his dorsal ﬁn as he burst out of the water.
A whole bunch of tourists went, ‘Whoa!’
I managed to wave at the crowd. Yeah, we do this every
day here in San Francisco.
Nereus plunged into the water and turned into a slimy eel.
I started to tie him into a knot until he realized what was
going on and changed back to human form. ‘Why won’t you
drown?’ he wailed, pummelling me with his ﬁsts.
‘I’m Poseidon’s son,’ I said.
‘Curse that upstart! I was here ﬁrst!’
Finally he collapsed on the edge of the boat dock. Above
us was one of those tourist piers lined with shops, like a mall
on water. Nereus was heaving and gasping. I was feeling
great. I could’ve gone on all day, but I didn’t tell him that. I
wanted him to feel like he’d put up a good ﬁght.
My friends ran down the steps from the pier.
‘You got him!’ Zoë said.
‘You don’t have to sound so amazed,’ I said.
Nereus moaned. ‘Oh, wonderful. An audience for my
humiliation! The normal deal, I suppose? You’ll let me go if I
answer your question?’
‘I’ve got more than one question,’ I said.
‘Only one question per capture! That’s the rule.’
I looked at my friends.
734
This wasn’t good. I needed to ﬁnd Artemis, and I needed
to ﬁgure out what the doomsday creature was. I also
needed to know if Annabeth was still alive, and how to
rescue her. How could I ask all that in one question?
A voice inside me was screaming Ask about Annabeth!
That’s what I cared about most.
But then I imagined what Annabeth might say. She would
never forgive me if I saved her and didn’t save Olympus.
Zoë would want me to ask about Artemis, but Chiron had
told us the monster was even more important.
I sighed. ‘All right, Nereus. Tell me where to ﬁnd this
terrible monster that could bring an end to the gods. The
one Artemis was hunting.’
The Old Man of the Sea smiled, showing oﬀ his mossy
green teeth.
‘Oh, that’s too easy,’ he said evilly. ‘He’s right there.’
Nereus pointed to the water at my feet.
‘Where?’ I said.
‘The deal is complete!’ Nereus gloated. With a pop, he
turned into a goldﬁsh and did a backﬂip into the sea.
‘You tricked me!’ I yelled.
‘Wait.’ Thalia’s eyes widened. ‘What is that?’
‘MOOOOOOOO!’
I looked down, and there was my friend the cow serpent,
swimming next to the dock. She nudged my shoe and gave
me the sad brown eyes.
‘Ah, Bessie,’ I said. ‘Not now.’
‘Mooo!’
Grover gasped. ‘He says his name isn’t Bessie.’
‘You can understand her… er, him?’
Grover nodded. ‘It’s a very old form of animal speech. But
he says his name is the Ophiotaurus.’
‘The Ophi-what?’
‘It means serpent bull in Greek,’ Thalia said. ‘But what’s it
doing here?’
‘Moooooooo!’
735
‘He says Percy is his protector,’ Grover announced. ‘And
he’s running from the bad people. He says they are close.’
I was wondering how you got all that out of a single
moooooo.
‘Wait,’ Zoë said, looking at me. ‘You know this cow?’
I was feeling impatient, but I told them the story.
Thalia shook her head in disbelief. ‘And you just forgot to
mention this before?’
‘Well… yeah.’ It seemed silly, now that she said it, but
things had been happening so fast. Bessie the Ophiotaurus
seemed like a minor detail.
‘I am a fool,’ Zoë said suddenly. ‘I know this story!’
‘What story?’
‘From the War of the Titans,’ she said. ‘My… my father
told me this tale, thousands of years ago. This is the beast
we are looking for.’
‘Bessie?’ I looked down at the bull serpent. ‘But… he’s too
cute. He couldn’t destroy the world.’
‘That is how we were wrong,’ Zoë said. ‘We’ve been
anticipating a huge dangerous monster, but the Ophiotaurus
does not bring down the gods that way. He must be
sacriﬁced.’
‘MMMM,’ Bessie lowed.
‘I don’t think he likes the S-word,’ Grover said.
I patted Bessie on the head, trying to calm him down. He
let me scratch his ear, but he was trembling.
‘How could anyone hurt him?’ I said. ‘He’s harmless.’
Zoë nodded. ‘But there is power in killing innocence.
Terrible power. The Fates ordained a prophecy aeons ago,
when this creature was born. They said that whoever killed
the Ophiotaurus and sacriﬁced its entrails to ﬁre would have
the power to destroy the gods.’
‘MMMMMM!’
‘Um,’ Grover said. ‘Maybe we could avoid talking about
entrails, too.’
736
Thalia stared at the cow serpent with wonder. ‘The power
to destroy the gods… how? I mean, what would happen?’
‘No one knows,’ Zoë said. ‘The ﬁrst time, during the Titan
war, the Ophiotaurus was in fact slain by a giant ally of the
Titans, but thy father Zeus sent an eagle to snatch the
entrails away before they could be tossed into the ﬁre. It
was a close call. Now, after three thousand years, the
Ophiotaurus is reborn.’
Thalia sat down on the dock. She stretched out her hand.
Bessie went right to her. Thalia placed her hand on his head.
Bessie shivered.
Thalia’s expression bothered me. She almost looked…
hungry.
‘We have to protect him,’ I told her. ‘If Luke gets hold of
him –’
‘Luke wouldn’t hesitate,’ Thalia muttered. ‘The power to
overthrow Olympus. That’s… that’s huge.’
‘Yes, it is, my dear,’ said a man’s voice in a heavy French
accent. ‘And it is a power you shall unleash.’
The 
Ophiotaurus 
made 
a 
whimpering 
sound 
and
submerged.
I looked up. We’d been so busy talking, we’d allowed
ourselves to be ambushed.
Standing behind us, his two-colour eyes gleaming
wickedly, was Dr Thorn, the manticore himself.
‘This is just pairrr-fect,’ the manticore gloated.
He was wearing a ratty black trench coat over his
Westover Hall uniform, which was torn and stained. His
military haircut had grown out spiky and greasy. He hadn’t
shaved recently, so his face was covered in silver stubble.
Basically, he didn’t look much better than the guys down at
the soup kitchen.
‘Long ago, the gods banished me to Persia,’ the manticore
said. ‘I was forced to scrounge for food on the edges of the
world, hiding in forests, devouring insigniﬁcant human
737
farmers for my meals. I never got to ﬁght any great heroes. I
was not feared and admired in the old stories! But now that
will change. The Titans shall honour me, and I shall feast on
the ﬂesh of half-bloods!’
On either side of him stood two armed security guys,
some of the mortal mercenaries I’d seen in D.C. Two more
stood on the next boat dock over, just in case we tried to
escape that way. There were tourists all around – walking
down the waterfront, shopping at the pier above us – but I
knew that wouldn’t stop the manticore from acting.
‘Where… where are the skeletons?’ I asked the manticore.
He sneered. ‘I do not need those foolish undead! The
General thinks I am worthless? He will change his mind
when I defeat you myself!’
I needed time to think. I had to save Bessie. I could dive
into the sea, but how could I make a quick getaway with a
two-hundred-kilogram cow serpent? And what about my
friends?
‘We beat you once before,’ I said.
‘Ha! You could barely ﬁght me with a goddess on your
side. And, alas… that goddess is preoccupied at the
moment. There will be no help for you now.’
Zoë notched an arrow and aimed it straight at the
manticore’s head. The guards on either side of us raised
their guns.
‘Wait!’ I said. ‘Zoë, don’t!’
The manticore smiled. ‘The boy is right, Zoë Nightshade.
Put away your bow. It would be a shame to kill you before
you witnessed Thalia’s great victory.’
‘What are you talking about?’ Thalia growled. She had her
shield and spear ready.
‘Surely it is clear,’ the manticore said. ‘This is your
moment. This is why Lord Kronos brought you back to life.
You will sacriﬁce the Ophiotaurus. You will bring its entrails
to the sacred ﬁre on the mountain. You will gain unlimited
738
power. And for your sixteenth birthday, you will overthrow
Olympus.’
No one spoke. It made terrible sense. Thalia was only two
days away from turning sixteen. She was a child of the Big
Three. And here was a choice, a terrible choice that could
mean the end of the gods. It was just like the prophecy said.
I wasn’t sure if I felt relieved, horriﬁed or disappointed. I
wasn’t the prophecy kid after all. Doomsday was happening
right now.
I waited for Thalia to tell the manticore oﬀ, but she
hesitated. She looked completely stunned.
‘You know it is the right choice,’ the manticore told her.
‘Your friend Luke recognized it. You shall be reunited with
him. You shall rule this world together under the auspices of
the Titans. Your father abandoned you, Thalia. He cares
nothing for you. And now you shall gain power over him.
Crush the Olympians underfoot, as they deserve. Call the
beast! It will come to you. Use your spear.’
‘Thalia,’ I said, ‘snap out of it!’
She looked at me the same way she had the morning she
woke up on Half-Blood Hill, dazed and uncertain. It was
almost like she didn’t know me. ‘I… I don’t –’
‘Your father helped you,’ I said. ‘He sent the metal angels.
He turned you into a tree to preserve you.’
Her hand tightened on the shaft of her spear.
I looked at Grover desperately. Thank the gods, he
understood what I needed. He raised his pipes to his mouth
and played a quick riﬀ.
The manticore yelled, ‘Stop him!’
The guards had been targeting Zoë, and before they could
ﬁgure out that the kid with the pipes was the bigger
problem, the wooden planks at their feet sprouted new
branches and tangled their legs. Zoë let loose two quick
arrows that exploded at their feet in clouds of sulphurous
yellow smoke. Fart arrows!
739
The guards started coughing. The manticore shot spines in
our direction but they ricocheted oﬀ my lion’s coat.
‘Grover,’ I said, ‘tell Bessie to dive deep and stay down!’
‘Moooooo!’ Grover translated. I could only hope that
Bessie got the message.
‘The cow…’ Thalia muttered, still in a daze.
‘Come on!’ I pulled her along as we ran up the stairs to
the shopping centre on the pier. We dashed round the
corner of the nearest store. I heard the manticore shouting
at his minions, ‘Get them!’ Tourists screamed as the guards
shot blindly into the air.
We scrambled to the end of the pier. We hid behind a little
kiosk ﬁlled with souvenir crystals – wind chimes and dream
catchers and stuﬀ like that, glittering in the sunlight. There
was a water fountain next to us. Down below, a bunch of
sea lions were sunning themselves on the rocks. The whole
of San Francisco Bay spread out before us: the Golden Gate
Bridge, Alcatraz Island and the green hills and fog beyond
that to the north. A picture-perfect moment, except for the
fact that we were about to die and the world was going to
end.
‘Go over the side!’ Zoë told me. ‘You can escape in the
sea, Percy. Call on thy father for help. Maybe you can save
the Ophiotaurus.’
She was right, but I couldn’t do it.
‘I won’t leave you guys,’ I said. ‘We ﬁght together.’
‘You have to get word to camp!’ Grover said. ‘At least let
them know what’s going on!’
Then I noticed the crystals making rainbows in the
sunlight. There was a drinking fountain next to me…
‘Get word to camp,’ I muttered. ‘Good idea.’
I uncapped Riptide and slashed oﬀ the top of the water
fountain. Water burst out of the busted pipe and sprayed all
over us.
Thalia gasped as the water hit her. The fog seemed to
clear from her eyes. ‘Are you crazy?’ she asked.
740
But Grover understood. He was already ﬁshing around in
his pockets for a coin. He threw a golden drachma into the
rainbows created by the mist and yelled, ‘O goddess, accept
my oﬀering!’
The mist rippled.
‘Camp Half-Blood!’ I said.
And there, shimmering in the Mist right next to us, was
the last person I wanted to see: Mr D, wearing his leopard-
skin jogging suit and rummaging through the refrigerator.
He looked up lazily. ‘Do you mind?’
‘Where’s Chiron!’ I shouted.
‘How rude.’ Mr D took a swig from a jug of grape juice. ‘Is
that how you say hello?’
‘Hello,’ I amended. ‘We’re about to die! Where’s Chiron?’
Mr D considered that. I wanted to scream at him to hurry
up, but I knew that wouldn’t work. Behind us, footsteps and
shouting – the manticore’s troops were closing in.
‘About to die,’ Mr D mused. ‘How exciting. I’m afraid
Chiron isn’t here. Would you like me to take a message?’
I looked at my friends. ‘We’re dead.’
Thalia gripped her spear. She looked like her old angry self
again. ‘Then we’ll die ﬁghting.’
‘How noble,’ Mr D said, stiﬂing a yawn. ‘So what is the
problem, exactly?’
I didn’t see that it would make any diﬀerence, but I told
him about the Ophiotaurus.
‘Mmm.’ He studied the contents of the fridge. ‘So that’s it.
I see.’
‘You don’t even care!’ I screamed. ‘You’d just as soon
watch us die!’
‘Let’s see. I think I’m in the mood for pizza tonight.’
I wanted to slash through the rainbow and disconnect, but
I didn’t have time. The manticore screamed, ‘There!’ And we
were surrounded. Two of the guards stood behind him. The
other two appeared on the roofs of the pier shops above us.
The manticore threw oﬀ his coat and transformed into his
741
true self, his lion claws extended and his spiky tail bristling
with poison barbs.
‘Excellent,’ he said. He glanced at the apparition in the
mist and snorted. ‘Alone, without any real help. Wonderful.’
‘You could ask for help,’ Mr D murmured to me, as if this
were an amusing thought. ‘You could say please.’
When wild boars ﬂy, I thought. There was no way I was
going to die begging a slob like Mr D, just so he could laugh
as we all got gunned down.
Zoë readied her arrows. Grover lifted his pipes. Thalia
raised her shield, and I noticed a tear running down her
cheek. Suddenly it occurred to me: this had happened to her
before. She had been cornered on Half-Blood Hill. She’d
willingly given her life for her friends. But, this time, she
couldn’t save us.
How could I let that happen to her?
‘Please, Mr D,’ I muttered. ‘Help.’
Of course, nothing happened.
The manticore grinned. ‘Spare the daughter of Zeus. She
will join us soon enough. Kill the others.’
The men raised their guns, and something strange
happened. You know how you feel when all the blood rushes
to your head, like if you hang upside down and turn right-
side up too quickly? There was a rush like that all around
me, and a sound like a huge sigh. The sunlight tinged with
purple. I smelled grapes and something more sour – wine.
SNAP!
It was the sound of many minds breaking at the same
time. The sound of madness. One guard put his pistol
between his teeth like it was a bone and ran around on all
fours. Two others dropped their guns and started waltzing
with each other. The fourth began doing what looked like an
Irish clogging dance. It would have been funny if it hadn’t
been so terrifying.
‘No!’ screamed the manticore. ‘I will deal with you
myself!’
742
His tail bristled, but the planks under his paws erupted
into grapevines that immediately began wrapping round the
monster’s body, sprouting new leaves and clusters of green
baby grapes that ripened in seconds as the manticore
shrieked, until he was engulfed in a huge mass of vines,
leaves and full clusters of purple grapes. Finally the grapes
stopped shivering, and I had a feeling that somewhere
inside there, the manticore was no more.
‘Well,’ said Dionysus, closing his refrigerator. ‘That was
fun.’
I stared at him, horriﬁed. ‘How could you… How did you –’
‘Such gratitude,’ he muttered. ‘The mortals will come out
of it. Too much explaining to do if I made their condition
permanent. I hate writing reports to Father.’
He stared resentfully at Thalia. ‘I hope you learned your
lesson, girl. It isn’t easy to resist power, is it?’
Thalia blushed as if she were ashamed.
‘Mr D,’ Grover said in amazement. ‘You… you saved us.’
‘Mmm. Don’t make me regret it, satyr. Now get going,
Percy Jackson. I’ve bought you a few hours at most.’
‘The Ophiotaurus,’ I said. ‘Can you get it to camp?’
Mr D sniﬀed. ‘I do not transport livestock. That’s your
problem.’
‘But where do we go?’
Dionysus looked at Zoë. ‘Oh, I think the huntress knows.
You must enter at sunset today, you know, or all is lost. Now
goodbye. My pizza is waiting.’
‘Mr D,’ I said.
He raised his eyebrow.
‘You called me by my right name,’ I said. ‘You called me
Percy Jackson.’
‘I most certainly did not, Peter Johnson. Now oﬀ with you!’
He waved his hand, and his image disappeared in the
mist.
All around us, the manticore’s minions were still acting
completely nuts. One of them had found our friend the
743
homeless guy, and they were having a serious conversation
about metal angels from Mars. Several other guards were
harassing the tourists, making animal noises and trying to
steal their shoes.
I looked at Zoë. ‘What did he mean… “the huntress
knows”?’
Her face was the colour of the fog. She pointed across the
bay, past the Golden Gate Bridge. In the distance, a single
mountain rose up above the cloud layer.
‘The garden of my sisters,’ she said. ‘I must go home.’
744
16    We Meet The Dragon Of Eternal Bad
Breath
 
‘We will never make it,’ Zoë said. ‘We are moving too slowly.
But we cannot leave the Ophiotaurus.’
‘Mooo,’ Bessie said. He swam next to me as we jogged
along the waterfront. We’d left the shopping-centre pier far
behind. We were heading towards the Golden Gate Bridge,
but it was a lot further than I’d realized. The sun was
already dipping in the west.
‘I don’t get it,’ I said. ‘Why do we have to get there at
sunset?’
‘The Hesperides are the nymphs of the sunset,’ Zoë said.
‘We can only enter their garden as day changes to night.’
‘What happens if we miss it?’
‘Tomorrow is winter solstice. If we miss sunset tonight, we
would have to wait until tomorrow evening. And by then, the
Olympian Council will be over. We must free Lady Artemis
tonight.’
Or Annabeth will be dead, I thought, but I didn’t say that.
‘We need a car,’ Thalia said.
‘But what about Bessie?’ I asked.
Grover stopped in his tracks. ‘I’ve got an idea! The
Ophiotaurus can appear in diﬀerent bodies of water, right?’
‘Well, yeah,’ I said. ‘I mean, he was in Long Island Sound.
Then he just popped into the water at Hoover Dam. And now
he’s here.’
‘So maybe we could coax him back to Long Island Sound,’
Grover said. ‘Then Chiron could help us get him to
Olympus.’
745
‘But he was following me,’ I said. ‘If I’m not there, would
he know where he’s going?’
‘Moo,’ Bessie said forlornly.
‘I… I can show him,’ Grover said. ‘I’ll go with him.’
I stared at him. Grover was no fan of the water. He’d
almost drowned last summer in the Sea of Monsters, and he
couldn’t swim very well with his goat hooves.
‘I’m the only one who can talk to him,’ Grover said. ‘It
makes sense.’
He bent down and said something in Bessie’s ear. Bessie
shivered, then made a contented, lowing sound.
‘The blessing of the Wild,’ Grover said. ‘That should help
with safe passage. Percy, pray to your dad, too. See if he
will grant us safe passage through the seas.’
I didn’t understand how they could possibly swim back to
Long Island from California. Then again, monsters didn’t
travel the same way as humans. I’d seen plenty of evidence
of that.
I tried to concentrate on the waves, the smell of the
ocean, the sound of the tide.
‘Dad,’ I said. ‘Help us. Get the Ophiotaurus and Grover
safely to camp. Protect them at sea.’
‘A prayer like that needs a sacriﬁce,’ Thalia said.
‘Something big.’
I thought for a second. Then I took oﬀ my coat.
‘Percy,’ Grover said. ‘Are you sure? That lion skin… that’s
really helpful. Hercules used it!’
As soon as he said that, I realized something.
I glanced at Zoë, who was watching me carefully. I
realized I did know who Zoë’s hero had been; the one who’d
ruined her life, got her kicked out of her family and never
even mentioned how she’d helped him. Hercules, a hero I’d
admired all my life.
‘If I’m going to survive,’ I said, ‘it won’t be because I’ve
got a lion-skin cloak. I’m not Hercules.’
746
I threw the coat into the bay. It turned back into a golden
lion skin, ﬂashing in the light. Then, as it began to sink
beneath the waves, it seemed to dissolve into sunlight on
the water.
The sea breeze picked up.
Grover took a deep breath. ‘Well, no time to lose.’
He jumped in the water and immediately began to sink.
Bessie glided next to him and let Grover take hold of his
neck.
‘Be careful,’ I told them.
‘We will,’ Grover said. ‘Okay, um… Bessie? We’re going to
Long Island. It’s east. Over that way.’
‘Moooo?’ Bessie said.
‘Yes,’ Grover answered. ‘Long Island. It’s this island. And…
it’s long. Oh, let’s just start.’
‘Mooo!’
Bessie lurched forward. He started to submerge and
Grover said, ‘I can’t breathe underwater! Just thought I’d
mention –’ Glub!
Under they went, and I hoped my father’s protection
would extend to little things, like breathing.
‘Well, that is one problem addressed,’ Zoë said. ‘But how
can we get to my sisters’ garden?’
‘Thalia’s right,’ I said. ‘We need a car. But there’s nobody
to help us here. Unless we, uh, borrowed one.’
I didn’t like that option. I mean, sure this was a life-or-
death situation, but still it was stealing, and it was bound to
get us noticed.
‘Wait,’ Thalia said. She started riﬂing through her
backpack. ‘There is somebody in San Francisco who can
help us. I’ve got the address here somewhere.’
‘Who?’ I asked.
Thalia pulled out a crumpled piece of notebook paper and
held it up. ‘Professor Chase. Annabeth’s dad.’
747
After hearing Annabeth gripe about her dad for two years, I
was expecting him to have devil horns and fangs. I was not
expecting him to be wearing an old-fashioned aviator’s cap
and goggles. He looked so weird, with his eyes bugging out
through the glasses, that we all took a step back on the
front porch.
‘Hello,’ he said in a friendly voice. ‘Are you delivering my
aeroplanes?’
Thalia, Zoë and I looked at each other warily.
‘Um, no, sir,’ I said.
‘Drat,’ he said. ‘I need three more Sopwith Camels.’
‘Right,’ I said, though I had no clue what he was talking
about. ‘We’re friends of Annabeth.’
‘Annabeth?’ He straightened as if I’d just given him an
electric shock. ‘Is she all right? Has something happened?’
None of us answered, but our faces must’ve told him that
something was very wrong. He took oﬀ his cap and goggles.
He had sandy-coloured hair like Annabeth and intense
brown eyes. He was handsome, I guess, for an older guy,
but it looked like he hadn’t shaved in a couple of days, and
his shirt was buttoned wrong, so one side of his collar stuck
up higher than the other side.
‘You’d better come in,’ he said.
It didn’t look like a house they’d just moved into. There were
LEGO robots on the stairs and two cats sleeping on the sofa
in the living room. The coﬀee table was stacked with
magazines, and a little kid’s winter coat was spread on the
ﬂoor. The whole house smelled like fresh-baked chocolate-
chip cookies. There was jazz music coming from the kitchen.
It seemed like a messy, happy kind of home – the kind of
place that had been lived in forever.
‘Dad!’ a little boy screamed. ‘He’s taking apart my
robots!’
‘Bobby,’ Dr Chase called absently, ‘don’t take apart your
brother’s robots.’
748
‘I’m Bobby,’ the little boy protested. ‘He’s Matthew!’
‘Matthew,’ Dr Chase called, ‘don’t take apart your
brother’s robots!’
‘Okay, Dad!’
Dr Chase turned to us. ‘We’ll go upstairs to my study. This
way.’
‘Honey?’ a woman called. Annabeth’s stepmom appeared
in the living room, wiping her hands on a dish towel. She
was a pretty Asian woman with red highlighted hair tied in a
bun.
‘Who are our guests?’ she asked.
‘Oh,’ Dr Chase said. ‘This is…’
He stared at us blankly.
‘Frederick,’ she chided. ‘You forgot to ask them their
names?’
We introduced ourselves a little uneasily, but Mrs Chase
seemed really nice. She asked if we were hungry. We
admitted we were, and she told us she’d bring us some
cookies and sandwiches and sodas.
‘Dear,’ Dr Chase said. ‘They came about Annabeth.’
I half expected Mrs Chase to turn into a raving lunatic at
the mention of her stepdaughter, but she just pursed her
lips and looked concerned. ‘All right. Go on up to the study
and I’ll bring you some food.’ She smiled at me. ‘Nice
meeting you, Percy. I’ve heard a lot about you.’
Upstairs, we walked into Dr Chase’s study and I said,
‘Whoa!’
The room was wall-to-wall books, but what really caught
my attention were the war toys. There was a huge table
with miniature tanks and soldiers ﬁghting along a blue
painted river, with hills and fake trees and stuﬀ. Old-
fashioned biplanes hung on strings from the ceiling, tilted at
crazy angles like they were in the middle of a dogﬁght.
Dr Chase smiled. ‘Yes. The Third Battle of Ypres. I’m
writing a paper, you see, on the use of Sopwith Camels to
749
strafe enemy lines. I believe they played a much greater
role than they’ve been given credit for.’
He plucked a biplane from its string and swept it across
the battleﬁeld, making aeroplane engine noises as he
knocked down little German soldiers.
‘Oh, right,’ I said. I knew Annabeth’s dad was a professor
of military history. She’d never mentioned he played with
toy soldiers.
Zoë came over and studied the battleﬁeld. ‘The German
lines were further from the river.’
Dr Chase stared at her. ‘How do you know that?’
‘I was there,’ she said matter-of-factly. ‘Artemis wanted to
show us how horrible war was, the way mortal men ﬁght
each other. And how foolish, too. The battle was a complete
waste.’
Dr Chase opened his mouth in shock. ‘You –’
‘She’s a Hunter, sir,’ Thalia said. ‘But that’s not why we’re
here. We need –’
‘You saw the Sopwith Camels?’ Dr Chase said. ‘How many
were there? What formations did they ﬂy?’
‘Sir,’ Thalia broke in again. ‘Annabeth is in danger.’
That got his attention. He set the biplane down.
‘Of course,’ he said. ‘Tell me everything.’
It wasn’t easy, but we tried. Meanwhile, the afternoon
light was fading outside. We were running out of time.
When we’d ﬁnished, Dr Chase collapsed in his leather
recliner. He laced his hands. ‘My poor brave Annabeth. We
must hurry.’
‘Sir, we need transportation to Mount Tamalpais,’ Zoë
said. ‘And we need it immediately.’
‘I’ll drive you. Hmm, it would be faster to ﬂy in my Camel,
but it only seats two.’
‘Whoa, you have an actual biplane?’ I said.
‘Down at Crissy Field,’ Dr Chase said proudly. ‘That’s the
reason I had to move here. My sponsor is a private collector
750
with some of the ﬁnest World War I relics in the world. He let
me restore the Sopwith Camel –’
‘Sir,’ Thalia said. ‘Just a car would be great. And it might
be better if we went without you. It’s too dangerous.’
Dr Chase frowned uncomfortably. ‘Now wait a minute,
young lady. Annabeth is my daughter. Dangerous or not, I…
I can’t just –’
‘Snacks,’ Mrs Chase announced. She pushed through the
door with a tray full of peanut-butter-and-jam sandwiches
and Cokes and cookies fresh out of the oven, the chocolate
chips still gooey. Thalia and I inhaled a few cookies while
Zoë said, ‘I can drive, sir. I’m not as young as I look. I
promise not to destroy your car.’
Mrs Chase knitted her eyebrows. ‘What’s this about?’
‘Annabeth is in danger,’ Dr Chase said. ‘On Mount Tam. I
would drive them, but… apparently it’s no place for
mortals.’
It sounded like it was really hard for him to get that last
part out.
I waited for Mrs Chase to say no. I mean, what mortal
parent would allow three underage teenagers to borrow
their car? To my surprise, Mrs Chase nodded. ‘Then they’d
better get going.’
‘Right!’ Dr Chase jumped up and started patting his
pockets. ‘My keys…’
His wife sighed. ‘Frederick, honestly. You’d lose your head
if it weren’t wrapped inside your aviator hat. The keys are
hanging on the peg by the front door.’
‘Right!’ Dr Chase said.
Zoë grabbed a sandwich. ‘Thank you both. We should go.
Now.’
We hustled out the door and down the stairs, the Chases
right behind us.
‘Percy,’ Mrs Chase called as I was leaving, ‘tell Annabeth…
Tell her she still has a home here, will you? Remind her of
that.’
751
I took one last look at the messy living room, Annabeth’s
half-brothers spilling LEGOs and arguing, the smell of
cookies ﬁlling the air. Not a bad place, I thought.
‘I’ll tell her,’ I promised.
We ran out to the yellow VW convertible parked in the
driveway. The sun was going down. I ﬁgured we had less
than an hour to save Annabeth.
‘Can’t this thing go any faster?’ Thalia demanded.
Zoë glared at her. ‘I cannot control traﬃc.’
‘You both sound like my mother,’ I said.
‘Shut up!’ they said in unison.
Zoë weaved in and out of traﬃc on the Golden Gate
Bridge. The sun was sinking on the horizon when we ﬁnally
got into Marin County and exited the highway.
The roads were insanely narrow, winding through forests
and up the sides of hills and round the edges of steep
ravines. Zoë didn’t slow down at all.
‘Why does everything smell like cough drops?’ I asked.
‘Eucalyptus.’ Zoë pointed to the huge trees all around us.
‘The stuﬀ koala bears eat?’
‘And monsters,’ she said. ‘They love chewing the leaves.
Especially dragons.’
‘Dragons chew eucalyptus leaves?’
‘Believe me,’ Zoë said, ‘if you had dragon breath, you
would chew eucalyptus, too.’
I didn’t question her, but I did keep my eyes peeled as we
drove. Ahead of us loomed Mount Tamalpais. I guess, in
terms of mountains, it was a small one, but it looked plenty
huge as we were driving towards it.
‘So that’s the Mountain of Despair?’ I asked.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said tightly.
‘Why do they call it that?’
She was silent for almost a mile before answering. ‘After
the war between the Titans and the gods, many of the
Titans were punished and imprisoned. Kronos was sliced to
752
pieces and thrown into Tartarus. Kronos’s right-hand man,
the general of his forces, was imprisoned up there, on the
summit, just beyond the Garden of the Hesperides.’
‘The General,’ I said. Clouds seemed to be swirling round
its peak, as though the mountain were drawing them in,
spinning them like a top. ‘What’s going on up there? A
storm?’
Zoë didn’t answer. I got the feeling she knew exactly what
the clouds meant, and she didn’t like it.
‘We have to concentrate,’ Thalia said. ‘The Mist is really
strong here.’
‘The magical kind or the natural kind?’ I asked.
‘Both.’
The grey clouds swirled even thicker over the mountain,
and we kept driving straight towards them. We were out of
the forest now, into wide open spaces of cliﬀs and grass and
rocks and fog.
I happened to glance down at the ocean as we passed a
scenic curve, and I saw something that made me jump out
of my seat.
‘Look!’ But we turned a corner and the ocean disappeared
behind the hills.
‘What?’ Thalia asked.
‘A big white ship,’ I said. ‘Docked near the beach. It looked
like a cruise ship.’
Her eyes widened. ‘Luke’s ship?’
I wanted to say I wasn’t sure. It might be a coincidence.
But I knew better. The Princess Andromeda, Luke’s demon
cruise ship, was docked at that beach. That’s why he’d sent
his ship all the way down to the Panama Canal. It was the
only way to sail it from the East Coast to California.
‘We will have company, then,’ Zoë said grimly. ‘Kronos’s
army.’
I was about to answer, when suddenly the hairs on the
back of my neck stood up. Thalia shouted, ‘Stop the car.
NOW!’
753
Zoë must’ve sensed something was wrong, because she
slammed on the brakes without question. The yellow VW
spun twice before coming to a stop at the edge of the cliﬀ.
‘Out!’ Thalia opened the door and pushed me hard. We
both rolled onto the pavement. The next second: BOOOM!
Lightning ﬂashed, and Dr Chase’s Volkswagen erupted like
a canary-yellow grenade. I probably would’ve been killed by
shrapnel except for Thalia’s shield, which appeared over
me. I heard a sound like metal rain, and when I opened my
eyes, we were surrounded by wreckage. One of the VW’s
doors had impaled itself in the street. The smoking bonnet
was spinning in circles. Pieces of yellow metal were strewn
across the road.
I swallowed the taste of smoke out of my mouth, and
looked at Thalia. ‘You saved my life.’
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand,’ she muttered.
‘Curse him. He would destroy me? Me?’
It took me a second to realize she was talking about her
dad. ‘Oh, hey, that couldn’t have been Zeus’s lightning bolt.
No way.’
‘Whose, then?’ Thalia demanded.
‘I don’t know. Zoë said Kronos’s name. Maybe he –’
Thalia shook her head, looking angry and stunned. ‘No.
That wasn’t it.’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘Where’s Zoë? Zoë!’
We both got up and ran round the blasted VW. Nothing
inside. Nothing either direction down the road. I looked
down the cliﬀ. No sign of her.
‘Zoë!’ I shouted.
Then she was standing right next to me, pulling me by my
arm. ‘Silence, fool! Do you want to wake Ladon?’
‘You mean we’re here?’
‘Very close,’ she said. ‘Follow me.’
Sheets of fog were drifting right across the road. Zoë
stepped into one of them, and, when the fog passed, she
was no longer there. Thalia and I looked at each other.
754
‘Concentrate on Zoë,’ Thalia advised. ‘We are following
her. Go straight into the fog and keep that in mind.’
‘Wait, Thalia. About what happened back on the pier… I
mean, with the manticore and the sacriﬁce –’
‘I don’t want to talk about it.’
‘You wouldn’t actually have… you know?’
She hesitated. ‘I was just shocked. That’s all.’
‘Zeus didn’t send that lighting bolt at the car. It was
Kronos. He’s trying to manipulate you, make you angry at
your dad.’
She took a deep breath. ‘Percy, I know you’re trying to
make me feel better. Thanks. But come on. We need to go.’
She stepped into the fog, into the Mist, and I followed.
When the fog cleared, I was still on the side of the
mountain, but the road was dirt. The grass was thicker. The
sunset made a blood-red slash across the sea. The summit
of the mountain seemed closer now, swirling with storm
clouds and raw power. There was only one path to the top,
directly in front of us. And it led through a lush meadow of
shadows and ﬂowers: the garden of twilight, just like I’d
seen in my dream.
If it hadn’t been for the enormous dragon, the garden
would’ve been the most beautiful place I’d ever seen. The
grass shimmered with silvery evening light, and the ﬂowers
were such brilliant colours they almost glowed in the dark.
Stepping stones of polished black marble led round either
side of a ﬁve-storey-tall apple tree, every bough glittering
with golden apples, and I don’t mean yellow golden apples
like in the grocery store. I mean real golden apples. I can’t
describe why they were so appealing, but, as soon as I
smelled their fragrance, I knew that one bite would be the
most delicious thing I’d ever tasted.
‘The apples of immortality,’ Thalia said. ‘Hera’s wedding
gift from Zeus.’
755
I wanted to step right up and pluck one, except for the
dragon coiled round the tree.
Now, I don’t know what you think of when I say dragon.
Whatever it is, it’s not scary enough. The serpent’s body
was as thick as a booster rocket, glinting with coppery
scales. It had more heads than I could count, as if a hundred
deadly pythons had been fused together. It appeared to be
asleep. The heads lay curled in a big spaghetti-like mound
on the grass, all the eyes closed.
Then the shadows in front of us began to move. There was
a beautiful, eerie singing, like voices from the bottom of a
well. I reached for Riptide, but Zoë stopped my hand. Four
ﬁgures shimmered into existence, four young women who
looked very much like Zoë. They all wore white Greek
chitons. Their skin was like caramel. Silky black hair tumbled
loose around their shoulders. It was strange, but I’d never
realized how beautiful Zoë was until I saw her siblings, the
Hesperides. They looked just like Zoë – gorgeous, and
probably very dangerous.
‘Sisters,’ Zoë said.
‘We do not see any sister,’ one of the girls said coldly. ‘We
see two half-bloods and a Hunter. All of whom shall soon
die.’
‘You’ve got it wrong.’ I stepped forward. ‘Nobody is going
to die.’
The girls studied me. They had eyes like volcanic rock,
glassy and completely black.
‘Perseus Jackson,’ one of them said.
‘Yes,’ mused another. ‘I do not see why he is a threat.’
‘Who said I was a threat?’
The ﬁrst Hesperid glanced behind her, towards the top of
the mountain. ‘They fear thee. They are unhappy that this
one has not yet killed thee.’
She pointed at Thalia.
‘Tempting sometimes,’ Thalia admitted. ‘But no thanks.
He’s my friend.’
756
‘There are no friends here, daughter of Zeus,’ the girl said.
‘Only enemies. Go back.’
‘Not without Annabeth,’ Thalia said.
‘And Artemis,’ Zoë said. ‘We must approach the
mountain.’
‘You know he will kill thee,’ the girl said. ‘You are no match
for him.’
‘Artemis must be freed,’ Zoë insisted. ‘Let us pass.’
The girl shook her head. ‘You have no rights here any
more. We have only to raise our voices and Ladon will
wake.’
‘He will not hurt me,’ Zoë said.
‘No? And what about thy so-called friends?’
Then Zoë did the last thing I expected. She shouted,
‘Ladon! Wake!’
The dragon stirred, glittering like a mountain of pennies.
The Hesperides yelped and scattered. The lead girl said to
Zoë, ‘Are you mad?’
‘You never had any courage, sister,’ Zoë said. ‘That is thy
problem.’
The dragon Ladon was writhing now, a hundred heads
whipping around, tongues ﬂickering and tasting the air. Zoë
took a step forward, her arms raised.
‘Zoë, don’t,’ Thalia said. ‘You’re not a Hesperid any more.
He’ll kill you.’
‘Ladon is trained to protect the tree,’ Zoë said. ‘Skirt
round the edges of the garden. Go up the mountain. As long
as I am a bigger threat, he should ignore thee.’
‘Should,’ I said. ‘Not exactly reassuring.’
‘It is the only way,’ she said. ‘Even the three of us
together cannot ﬁght him.’
Ladon opened his mouths. The sound of a hundred heads
hissing at once sent a shiver down my spine, and that was
before his breath hit me. The smell was like acid. It made
my eyes burn, my skin crawl and my hair stand on end. I
remembered the time a rat had died inside our apartment
757
wall in New York in the middle of the summer. This stench
was like that, except a hundred times stronger, and mixed
with the smell of chewed eucalyptus. I promised myself
right then that I would never ask a school nurse for another
cough drop.
I wanted to draw my sword. But then I remembered my
dream of Zoë and Hercules, and how Hercules had failed in
a head-on assault. I decided to trust Zoë’s judgement.
Thalia went left. I went right. Zoë walked straight towards
the monster.
‘It’s me, my little dragon,’ Zoë said. ‘Zoë has come back.’
Ladon shifted forward, then back. Some of the mouths
closed. Some kept hissing. Dragon confusion. Meanwhile,
the Hesperides shimmered and turned into shadows. The
voice of the eldest whispered, ‘Fool.’
‘I used to feed thee by hand,’ Zoë continued, speaking in
a soothing voice as she stepped towards the golden tree.
‘Do you still like lamb’s meat?’
The dragon’s eyes glinted.
Thalia and I were about halfway round the garden. Ahead,
I could see a single rocky trail leading up to the black peak
of the mountain. The storm swirled above it, spinning on the
summit like it was the axis for the whole world.
We’d almost made it out of the meadow when something
went wrong. I felt the dragon’s mood shift. Maybe Zoë got
too close. Maybe the dragon realized he was hungry.
Whatever the reason, he lunged at Zoë.
Two thousand years of training kept her alive. She dodged
one set of slashing fangs and tumbled under another,
weaving through the dragon’s heads as she ran in our
direction, gagging from the monster’s horrible breath.
I drew Riptide to help.
‘No!’ Zoë panted. ‘Run!’
The dragon snapped at her side, and Zoë cried out. Thalia
uncovered Aegis and the dragon hissed in pain. In his
758
moment of indecision, Zoë sprinted past us up the
mountain, and we followed.
The dragon didn’t try to pursue. He hissed and stomped
the ground, but I guess he was well trained to guard that
tree. He wasn’t going to be lured oﬀ, even by the tasty
prospect of eating some heroes.
We ran up the mountain as the Hesperides resumed their
song in the shadows behind us. The music didn’t sound so
beautiful to me now – more like the soundtrack for a funeral.
At the top of the mountain were ruins, blocks of black
granite and marble as big as houses. Broken columns.
Statues of bronze that looked as though they’d been half
melted.
‘The ruins of Mount Othrys,’ Thalia whispered in awe.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said. ‘It was not here before. This is bad.’
‘What’s Mount Othrys?’ I asked, feeling like a fool as
usual.
‘The mountain fortress of the Titans,’ Zoë said. ‘In the ﬁrst
war, Olympus and Othrys were the two rival capitals of the
world. Othrys was –’ She winced and held her side.
‘You’re hurt,’ I said. ‘Let me see.’
‘No! It is nothing. I was saying… in the ﬁrst war, Othrys
was blasted to pieces.’
‘But… how is it here?’
Thalia looked around cautiously as we picked our way
through the rubble, past blocks of marble and broken
archways. ‘It moves in the same way that Olympus moves.
It always exists on the edges of civilization. But the fact that
it is here, on this mountain, is not good.’
‘Why?’
‘This is Atlas’s mountain,’ Zoë said. ‘Where he holds –’ She
froze. Her voice was ragged with despair. ‘Where he used to
hold up the sky.’
We had reached the summit. A few metres ahead of us,
grey clouds swirled in a heavy vortex, making a funnel cloud
759
that almost touched the mountaintop, but instead rested on
the shoulders of a twelve-year-old girl with auburn hair and
a tattered silvery dress: Artemis, her legs bound to the rock
with celestial bronze chains. This is what I had seen in my
dream. It hadn’t been a cavern roof that Artemis was forced
to hold. It was the roof of the world.
‘My lady!’ Zoë rushed forward, but Artemis said, ‘Stop! It
is a trap. You must leave now.’
Her voice was strained. She was drenched in sweat. I had
never seen a goddess in pain before, but the weight of the
sky was clearly too much for Artemis.
Zoë was crying. She ran forward despite Artemis’s
protests, and tugged at the chains.
A booming voice spoke behind us: ‘Ah, how touching.’
We turned. The General was standing there in his brown
silk suit. At his side were Luke and half a dozen dracaenae
bearing the golden sarcophagus of Kronos. Annabeth stood
at Luke’s side. She had her hands cuﬀed behind her back, a
gag in her mouth and Luke was holding the point of his
sword to her throat.
I met her eyes, trying to ask her a thousand questions.
There was just one message she was sending me, though:
RUN!
‘Luke,’ Thalia snarled. ‘Let her go.’
Luke’s smile was weak and pale. He looked even worse
than he had three days ago in D.C. ‘That is the General’s
decision, Thalia. But it’s good to see you again.’
Thalia spat at him.
The General chuckled. ‘So much for old friends. And you,
Zoë. It’s been a long time. How is my little traitor? I will
enjoy killing you.’
‘Do not respond,’ Artemis groaned. ‘Do not challenge
him.’
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘You’re Atlas?’
The General glanced at me. ‘So, even the stupidest of
heroes can ﬁnally ﬁgure something out. Yes, I am Atlas, the
760
general 
of 
the 
Titans 
and 
terror 
of 
the 
gods.
Congratulations. I will kill you presently, as soon as I deal
with this wretched girl.’
‘You’re not going to hurt Zoë,’ I said. ‘I won’t let you.’
The General sneered. ‘You have no right to interfere, little
hero. This is a family matter.’
I frowned. ‘A family matter?’
‘Yes,’ Zoë said bleakly. ‘Atlas is my father.’
761
17    I Put On A Few Million Extra
Kilograms
 
The horrible thing was: I could see the family resemblance.
Atlas had the same regal expression as Zoë, the same cold,
proud look in his eyes that Zoë sometimes got when she
was mad, though on him it just looked evil. He was all the
things I’d originally disliked about Zoë, with none of the
good I’d come to appreciate.
‘Let Artemis go,’ Zoë demanded.
Atlas walked closer to the chained goddess. ‘Perhaps
you’d like to take the sky for her, then? Be my guest.’
Zoë opened her mouth to speak, but Artemis said, ‘No! Do
not oﬀer, Zoë! I forbid you.’
Atlas smirked. He knelt next to Artemis and tried to touch
her face, but the goddess bit at him, almost taking oﬀ his
ﬁngers.
‘Hoo-hoo,’ Atlas chuckled. ‘You see, daughter? Lady
Artemis likes her new job. I think I will have all the
Olympians take turns carrying my burden, once Lord Kronos
rules again, and this is the centre of our palace. It will teach
those weaklings some humility.’
I looked at Annabeth. She was desperately trying to tell
me something. She motioned her head towards Luke. But all
I could do was stare at her. I hadn’t noticed before, but
something about her had changed. Her blonde hair was now
streaked with grey.
‘From holding the sky,’ Thalia muttered, as if she’d read
my mind. ‘The weight should’ve killed her.’
762
‘I don’t understand,’ I said. ‘Why can’t Artemis just let go
of the sky?’
Atlas laughed. ‘How little you understand, young one. This
is the point where the sky and the earth ﬁrst met, where
Ouranos and Gaia ﬁrst brought forth their mighty children,
the Titans. The sky still yearns to embrace the earth.
Someone must hold it at bay, or else it would crush down
upon this place, instantly ﬂattening the mountain and
everything within a hundred leagues. Once you have taken
the burden, there is no escape.’ Atlas smiled. ‘Unless
someone else takes it from you.’
He approached us, studying Thalia and me. ‘So these are
the best heroes of the age, eh? Not much of a challenge.’
‘Fight us,’ I said. ‘And let’s see.’
‘Have the gods taught you nothing? An immortal does not
ﬁght a mere mortal directly. It is beneath our dignity. I will
have Luke crush you instead.’
‘So you’re another coward,’ I said.
Atlas’s eyes glowed with hatred. With diﬃculty, he turned
his attention to Thalia.
‘As for you, daughter of Zeus, it seems Luke was wrong
about you.’
‘I wasn’t wrong,’ Luke managed. He looked terribly weak,
and he spoke every word as if it were painful. If I didn’t hate
his guts so much, I almost would’ve felt sorry for him.
‘Thalia, you still can join us. Call the Ophiotaurus. It will
come to you. Look!’
He waved his hand, and next to us a pool of water
appeared: a pond ringed in black marble, big enough for the
Ophiotaurus. I could imagine Bessie in that pool. In fact, the
more I thought about it, the more I was sure I could hear
Bessie mooing.
Don’t think about him! Suddenly Grover’s voice was inside
my mind – the empathy link. I could feel his emotions. He
was on the verge of panic. I’m losing Bessie. Block the
thoughts!
763
I tried to make my mind go blank. I tried to think about
basketball players, skateboards, the diﬀerent kinds of candy
in my mom’s shop. Anything but Bessie.
‘Thalia, call the Ophiotaurus,’ Luke persisted. ‘And you will
be more powerful than the gods.’
‘Luke…’ Her voice was full of pain. ‘What happened to
you?’
‘Don’t you remember all those times we talked? All those
times we cursed the gods? Our fathers have done nothing
for us. They have no right to rule the world!’
Thalia shook her head. ‘Free Annabeth. Let her go.’
‘If you join me,’ Luke promised, ‘it can be like old times.
The three of us together. Fighting for a better world. Please,
Thalia, if you don’t agree…’
His voice faltered. ‘It’s my last chance. He will use the
other way if you don’t agree. Please.’
I didn’t know what he meant, but the fear in his voice
sounded real enough. I believed that Luke was in danger.
His life depended on Thalia’s joining his cause. And I was
afraid Thalia might believe it, too.
‘Do not, Thalia,’ Zoë warned. ‘We must ﬁght them.’
Luke waved his hand again, and a ﬁre appeared. A bronze
brazier, just like the one at camp. A sacriﬁcial ﬂame.
‘Thalia,’ I said. ‘No.’
Behind Luke, the golden sarcophagus began to glow. As it
did, I saw images in the mist all around us: black marble
walls rising, the ruins becoming whole, a terrible and
beautiful palace rising around us, made of fear and shadow.
‘We will raise Mount Othrys right here,’ Luke promised, in
a voice so strained it was hardly his. ‘Once more, it will be
stronger and greater than Olympus. Look, Thalia. We are not
weak.’
He pointed towards the ocean, and my heart fell.
Marching up the side of the mountain, from the beach where
the Princess Andromeda was docked, was a great army.
Dracaenae and Laestrygonians, monsters and half-bloods,
764
hell hounds, harpies and other things I couldn’t even name.
The whole ship must’ve been emptied, because there were
hundreds, many more than I’d seen on board last summer.
And they were marching towards us. In a few minutes, they
would be here.
‘This is only a taste of what is to come,’ Luke said. ‘Soon
we will be ready to storm Camp Half-Blood. And after that,
Olympus itself. All we need is your help.’
For a terrible moment, Thalia hesitated. She gazed at
Luke, her eyes full of pain, as if the only thing she wanted in
the world was to believe him. Then she levelled her spear.
‘You aren’t Luke. I don’t know you any more.’
‘Yes, you do, Thalia,’ he pleaded. ‘Please. Don’t make
me… Don’t make him destroy you.’
There was no time. If that army got to the top of the hill,
we would be overwhelmed. I met Annabeth’s eyes again.
She nodded.
I looked at Thalia and Zoë, and I decided it wouldn’t be
the worst thing in the world to die ﬁghting with friends like
this.
‘Now,’ I said.
Together, we charged.
Thalia went straight for Luke. The power of her shield was so
great that his dragon-women bodyguards ﬂed in a panic,
dropping the golden coﬃn and leaving him alone. But
despite his sickly appearance, Luke was still quick with his
sword. He snarled like a wild animal and counter-attacked.
When his sword Backbiter met Thalia’s shield, a ball of
lightning erupted between them, frying the air with yellow
tendrils of power.
As for me, I did the stupidest thing of my life, which is
saying a lot. I attacked the Titan Lord Atlas.
He laughed as I approached. A huge javelin appeared in
his hands. His silk suit melted into full Greek battle armour.
‘Go on, then!’
765
‘Percy!’ Zoë said. ‘Beware!’
I knew what she was warning me about. Chiron had told
me long ago: Immortals are constrained by ancient rules.
But a hero can go anywhere, challenge anyone, as long as
he has the nerve. Once I attacked, Atlas was free to retaliate
directly, with all his might.
I swung my sword, and Atlas knocked me aside with the
shaft of his javelin. I ﬂew through the air and slammed into
a black wall. It wasn’t Mist any more. The palace was rising,
brick by brick. It was becoming real.
‘Fool!’ Atlas screamed gleefully, swatting aside one of
Zoë’s arrows. ‘Did you think, simply because you could
challenge that petty war god, that you could stand up to
me?’
The mention of Ares sent a jolt through me. I shook oﬀ my
daze and charged again. If I could get to that pool of water I
could double my strength.
The javelin’s point slashed towards me like a scythe. I
raised Riptide, planning to cut oﬀ his weapon at the shaft,
but my arm felt like lead. My sword suddenly weighed a ton.
And I remembered Ares’s warning, spoken on the beach in
Los Angeles so long ago: When you need it most, your
sword will fail you.
Not now! I pleaded. But it was no good. I tried to dodge,
but the javelin caught me in the chest and sent me ﬂying
like a rag doll. I slammed into the ground, my head
spinning. I looked up and found I was at the feet of Artemis,
still straining under the weight of the sky.
‘Run, boy,’ she told me. ‘You must run!’
Atlas was taking his time coming towards me. My sword
was gone. It had skittered away over the edge of the cliﬀ. It
might reappear in my pocket – maybe in a few seconds –
but it didn’t matter. I’d be dead by then. Luke and Thalia
were ﬁghting like demons, lightning crackling around them.
Annabeth was on the ground, desperately struggling to free
her hands.
766
‘Die, little hero,’ Atlas said.
He raised his javelin to impale me.
‘No!’ Zoë yelled, and a volley of silver arrows sprouted
from the armpit chink in Atlas’s armour.
‘ARGH!’ He bellowed and turned towards his daughter.
I reached down and felt Riptide back in my pocket. I
couldn’t ﬁght Atlas, even with a sword. And then a chill went
down my spine. I remembered the words of the prophecy:
The Titan’s curse must one withstand. I couldn’t hope to
beat Atlas. But there was someone else who might stand a
chance.
‘The sky,’ I told the goddess. ‘Give it to me.’
‘No, boy,’ Artemis said. Her forehead was beaded with
metallic sweat, like quicksilver. ‘You don’t know what you’re
asking. It will crush you!’
‘Annabeth took it!’
‘She barely survived. She had the spirit of a true huntress.
You will not last so long.’
‘I’ll die anyway,’ I said. ‘Give me the weight of the sky!’
I didn’t wait for her answer. I took out Riptide and slashed
through her chains. Then I stepped next to her and braced
myself on one knee – holding up my hands – and touched
the cold, heavy clouds. For a moment, Artemis and I bore
the weight together. It was the heaviest thing I’d ever felt,
as if I were being crushed under a thousand trucks. I wanted
to black out from the pain, but I breathed deeply. I can do
this.
Then Artemis slipped out from under the burden, and I
held it alone.
Afterwards, I tried many times to explain what it felt like. I
couldn’t.
Every muscle in my body turned to ﬁre. My bones felt like
they were melting. I wanted to scream, but I didn’t have the
strength to open my mouth. I began to sink, lower and lower
to the ground, the sky’s weight crushing me.
767
Fight back! Grover’s voice said inside my head. Don’t give
up.
I concentrated on breathing. If I could just keep the sky
aloft a few more seconds. I thought about Bianca, who had
given her life so we could get here. If she could do that, I
could hold the sky.
My vision turned fuzzy. Everything was tinged with red. I
caught glimpses of the battle, but I wasn’t sure if I was
seeing clearly. There was Atlas in full battle armour, jabbing
with his javelin, laughing insanely as he fought. And
Artemis, a blur of silver. She had two wicked hunting knives,
each as long as her arm, and she slashed wildly at the Titan,
dodging and leaping with unbelievable grace. She seemed
to change form as she manoeuvred. She was a tiger, a
gazelle, a bear, a falcon. Or perhaps that was just my
fevered brain. Zoë shot arrows at her father, aiming for the
chinks in his armour. He roared in pain each time one found
its mark, but they aﬀected him like bee stings. He just got
madder and kept ﬁghting.
Thalia and Luke went spear on sword, lightning still
ﬂashing around them. Thalia pressed Luke back with the
aura of her shield. Even he was not immune to it. He
retreated, wincing and growling in frustration.
‘Yield!’ Thalia yelled. ‘You never could beat me, Luke.’
He bared his teeth. ‘We’ll see, my old friend.’
Sweat poured down my face. My hands were slippery. My
shoulders would’ve screamed with agony if they could. I felt
like the vertebrae in my spine were being welded together
by a blowtorch.
Atlas advanced, pressing Artemis. She was fast, but his
strength was unstoppable. His javelin slammed into the
earth where Artemis had been a split second before, and a
ﬁssure opened in the rocks. He leaped over it and kept
pursuing her. She was leading him back towards me.
Get ready, she spoke in my mind.
768
I was losing the ability to think through the pain. My
response was something like Agggghh-owwwwwwww.
‘You ﬁght well for a girl.’ Atlas laughed. ‘But you are no
match for me.’
He feinted with the tip of his javelin and Artemis dodged. I
saw the trick coming. Atlas’s javelin swept round and
knocked Artemis’s legs oﬀ the ground. She fell, and Atlas
brought up his javelin tip for the kill.
‘No!’ Zoë screamed. She leaped between her father and
Artemis and shot an arrow straight into the Titan’s forehead,
where it lodged like a unicorn’s horn. Atlas bellowed in rage.
He swept aside his daughter with the back of his hand,
sending her ﬂying into the black rocks.
I wanted to shout her name, run to her aid, but I couldn’t
speak or move. I couldn’t even see where Zoë had landed.
Then Atlas turned on Artemis with a look of triumph in his
face. Artemis seemed to be wounded. She didn’t get up.
‘The ﬁrst blood in a new war,’ Atlas gloated. And he
stabbed downward.
As fast as thought, Artemis grabbed his javelin shaft. It hit
the earth right next to her and she pulled backwards, using
the javelin like a lever, kicking the Titan Lord and sending
him ﬂying over her. I saw him coming down on top of me
and I realized what would happen. I loosened my grip on the
sky, and as Atlas slammed into me I didn’t try to hold on. I
let myself be pushed out of the way and rolled for all I was
worth.
The weight of the sky dropped onto Atlas’s back, almost
smashing him ﬂat until he managed to get to his knees,
struggling to get out from under the crushing weight of the
sky. But it was too late.
‘NOOOOOO!’ He bellowed so hard it shook the mountain.
‘NOT AGAIN!’
Atlas was trapped under his old burden.
I tried to stand and fell back again, dazed from pain. My
body felt like it was burning up.
769
Thalia backed Luke to the edge of a cliﬀ, but still they
fought on, next to the golden coﬃn. Thalia had tears in her
eyes. Luke had a bloody slash across his chest and his pale
face glistened with sweat.
He lunged at Thalia and she slammed him with her shield.
Luke’s sword spun out of his hands and clattered to the
rocks. Thalia put her spear point to his throat.
For a moment, there was silence.
‘Well?’ Luke asked. He tried to hide it, but I could hear fear
in his voice.
Thalia trembled with fury.
Behind her, Annabeth came scrambling, ﬁnally free from
her bonds. Her face was bruised and streaked with dirt.
‘Don’t kill him!’
‘He’s a traitor,’ Thalia said. ‘A traitor!’
In my daze, I realized that Artemis was no longer with me.
She had run oﬀ towards the black rocks where Zoë had
fallen.
‘We’ll bring Luke back,’ Annabeth pleaded. ‘To Olympus.
He… he’ll be useful.’
‘Is that what you want, Thalia?’ Luke sneered. ‘To go back
to Olympus in triumph? To please your dad?’
Thalia hesitated, and Luke made a desperate grab for her
spear.
‘No!’ Annabeth shouted. But it was too late. Without
thinking, Thalia kicked Luke away. He lost his balance, terror
on his face, and then he fell.
‘Luke!’ Annabeth screamed.
We rushed to the cliﬀ’s edge. Below us, the army from the
Princess Andromeda had stopped in amazement. They were
staring at Luke’s broken form on the rocks. Despite how
much I hated him, I couldn’t stand to see it. I wanted to
believe he was still alive, but that was impossible. The fall
was ﬁfteen metres at least, and he wasn’t moving.
One of the giants looked up and growled, ‘Kill them!’
770
Thalia was stiﬀ with grief, tears streaming down her
cheeks. I pulled her back as a wave of javelins sailed over
our heads. We ran for the rocks, ignoring the curses and
threats of Atlas as we passed.
‘Artemis!’ I yelled.
The goddess looked up, her face almost as grief-stricken
as Thalia’s. Zoë lay in the goddess’s arms. She was
breathing. Her eyes were open. But still…
‘The wound is poisoned,’ Artemis said.
‘Atlas poisoned her?’ I asked.
‘No,’ the goddess said. ‘Not Atlas.’
She showed us the wound in Zoë’s side. I’d almost
forgotten her scrape with Ladon the dragon. The bite was
much worse than Zoë had let on. I could barely look at the
wound. She had charged into battle against her father with
a horrible cut already sapping her strength.
‘The stars,’ Zoë murmured. ‘I cannot see them.’
‘Nectar and ambrosia,’ I said. ‘Come on! We have to get
her some.’
No one moved. Grief hung in the air. The army of Kronos
was just below the rise. Even Artemis was too shocked to
stir. We might’ve met our doom right there, but then I heard
a strange buzzing noise.
Just as the army of monsters came over the hill, a Sopwith
Camel swooped down out of the sky.
‘Get away from my daughter!’ Dr Chase called down, and
his machine guns burst into life, peppering the ground with
bullet holes and startling the whole group of monsters into
scattering.
‘Dad?’ yelled Annabeth in disbelief.
‘Run!’ he called back, his voice growing fainter as the
biplane swooped by.
This shook Artemis out of her grief. She stared up at the
antique plane, which was now banking round for another
strafe.
771
‘A brave man,’ Artemis said with grudging approval.
‘Come. We must get Zoë away from here.’
She raised her hunting horn to her lips, and its clear sound
echoed down the valleys of Marin. Zoë’s eyes were
ﬂuttering.
‘Hang in there!’ I told her. ‘It’ll be all right!’
The Sopwith Camel swooped down again. A few giants
threw javelins, and one ﬂew straight between the wings of
the plane, but the machine guns blazed. I realized with
amazement that somehow Dr Chase must’ve got hold of
celestial bronze to fashion his bullets. The ﬁrst row of snake
women wailed as the machine gun’s volley blew them into
sulphurous yellow powder.
‘That’s… my dad!’ Annabeth said in amazement.
We didn’t have time to admire his ﬂying. The giants and
snake women were already recovering from their surprise.
Dr Chase would be in trouble soon.
Just then, the moonlight brightened, and a silver chariot
appeared from the sky, drawn by the most beautiful deer I
had ever seen. It landed right next to us.
‘Get in,’ Artemis said.
Annabeth helped me get Thalia on board. Then I helped
Artemis with Zoë. We wrapped Zoë in a blanket as Artemis
pulled the reins and the chariot sped away from the
mountain, straight into the air.
‘Like Santa Claus’s sleigh,’ I murmured, still dazed with
pain.
Artemis took time to look back at me. ‘Indeed, young half-
blood. And where do you think that legend came from?’
Seeing us safely away, Dr Chase turned his biplane and
followed us like an honour guard. It must have been one of
the strangest sights ever, even for the Bay Area: a silver
ﬂying chariot pulled by deer, escorted by a Sopwith Camel.
Behind us, the army of Kronos roared in anger as they
gathered on the summit of Mount Tamalpais, but the loudest
772
sound was the voice of Atlas, bellowing curses against the
gods as he struggled under the weight of the sky.
773
18    A Friend Says Goodbye
 
We landed at Crissy Field after nightfall.
As soon as Dr Chase stepped out of his Sopwith Camel,
Annabeth ran to him and gave him a huge hug. ‘Dad! You
ﬂew… you shot… oh my gods! That was the most amazing
thing I’ve ever seen!’
Her father blushed. ‘Well, not bad for a middle-aged
mortal, I suppose.’
‘But the celestial bronze bullets! How did you get those?’
‘Ah, well. You did leave quite a few half-blood weapons in
your room in Virginia, the last time you… left.’
Annabeth looked down, embarrassed. I noticed Dr Chase
was very careful not to say ran away.
‘I decided to try melting some down to make bullet
casings,’ he continued. ‘Just a little experiment.’
He said it like it was no big deal, but he had a gleam in his
eye. I could understand all of a sudden why Athena,
Goddess of Crafts and Wisdom, had taken a liking to him. He
was an excellent mad scientist at heart.
‘Dad…’ Annabeth faltered.
‘Annabeth, Percy,’ Thalia interrupted. Her voice was
urgent. She and Artemis were kneeling at Zoë’s side,
binding the huntress’s wounds.
Annabeth and I ran over to help, but there wasn’t much
we could do. We had no ambrosia or nectar. No regular
medicine would help. It was dark, but I could see that Zoë
didn’t look good. She was shivering, and the faint glow that
usually hung around her was fading.
774
‘Can’t you heal her with magic?’ I asked Artemis. ‘I
mean… you’re a goddess.’
Artemis looked troubled. ‘Life is a fragile thing, Percy. If
the Fates will the string to be cut, there is little I can do. But
I can try.’
She tried to set her hand on Zoë’s side, but Zoë gripped
her wrist. She looked into the goddess’s eyes, and some
kind of understanding passed between them.
‘Have I… served thee well?’ Zoë whispered.
‘With great honour,’ Artemis said softly. ‘The ﬁnest of my
attendants.’
Zoë’s face relaxed. ‘Rest. At last.’
‘I can try to heal the poison, my brave one.’
But in that moment, I knew it wasn’t just the poison that
was killing her. It was her father’s ﬁnal blow. Zoë had known
all along that the Oracle’s prophecy was about her: she
would die by a parent’s hand. And yet she’d taken the quest
anyway. She had chosen to save me, and Atlas’s fury had
broken her inside.
She saw Thalia, and took her hand.
‘I am sorry we argued,’ Zoë said. ‘We could have been
sisters.’
‘It’s my fault,’ Thalia said, blinking hard. ‘You were right
about Luke, about heroes, men – everything.’
‘Perhaps not all men,’ Zoë murmured. She smiled weakly
at me. ‘Do you still have the sword, Percy?’
I couldn’t speak, but I brought out Riptide and put the pen
in her hand. She grasped it contentedly. ‘You spoke the
truth, Percy Jackson. You are nothing like… like Hercules. I
am honoured that you carry this sword.’
A shudder ran through her body.
‘Zoë –’ I said.
‘Stars,’ she whispered. ‘I can see the stars again, my lady.’
A tear trickled down Artemis’s cheek. ‘Yes, my brave one.
They are beautiful tonight.’
775
‘Stars,’ Zoë repeated. Her eyes ﬁxed on the night sky. And
she did not move again.
Thalia lowered her head. Annabeth gulped down a sob,
and her father put his hands on her shoulders. I watched as
Artemis cupped her hand above Zoë’s mouth and spoke a
few words in Ancient Greek. A silvery wisp of smoke exhaled
from Zoë’s lips and was caught in the hand of the goddess.
Zoë’s body shimmered and disappeared.
Artemis stood, said a kind of blessing, breathed into her
cupped hand and released the silver dust to the sky. It ﬂew
up, sparkling, and vanished.
For a moment, I didn’t see anything diﬀerent. Then
Annabeth gasped. Looking up in the sky, I saw that the stars
were brighter now. They made a pattern I had never noticed
before – a gleaming constellation that looked a lot like a
girl’s ﬁgure – a girl with a bow, running across the sky.
‘Let the world honour you, my huntress,’ Artemis said.
‘Live forever in the stars.’
It wasn’t easy saying our goodbyes. The thunder and
lightning were still boiling over Mount Tamalpais in the
north. Artemis was so upset she ﬂickered with silver light.
This made me nervous, because if she suddenly lost control
and appeared in her fully divine form, we would disintegrate
if we looked at her.
‘I must go to Olympus immediately.’ Artemis said. ‘I will
not be able to take you, but I will send help.’
The goddess set her hand on Annabeth’s shoulder. ‘You
are brave beyond measure, my girl. You will do what is
right.’
Then she looked quizzically at Thalia, as if she weren’t
sure what to make of this younger daughter of Zeus. Thalia
seemed reluctant to look up, but something made her, and
she held the goddess’s eyes. I wasn’t sure what passed
between them, but Artemis’s gaze softened with sympathy.
Then she turned to me.
776
‘You did well,’ she said. ‘For a man.’
I wanted to protest. But then I realized it was the ﬁrst time
she hadn’t called me a boy.
She mounted her chariot, which began to glow. We
averted our eyes. There was a ﬂash of silver, and the
goddess was gone.
‘Well,’ Dr Chase sighed. ‘She was impressive, though I
must say I still prefer Athena.’
Annabeth turned towards him. ‘Dad, I… I’m sorry that –’
‘Shh.’ He hugged her. ‘Do what you must, my dear. I know
this isn’t easy for you.’
His voice was a little shaky, but he gave Annabeth a brave
smile.
Then I heard the whoosh of large wings. Three pegasi
descended through the fog: two white winged horses and
one pure black one.
‘Blackjack!’ I called.
Yo, boss! he called. You manage to stay alive okay without
me?
‘It was rough,’ I admitted.
I brought Guido and Porkpie with me.
How ya doin? The other two pegasi spoke in my mind.
Blackjack looked me over with concern, then checked out
Dr Chase, Thalia and Annabeth. Any of these goons you
want us to stampede?
‘Nah,’ I said aloud. ‘These are my friends. We need to get
to Olympus pretty fast.’
No problem, Blackjack said. Except for the mortal over
there. Hope he’s not going.
I assured him Dr Chase was not. The professor was staring
open-mouthed at the pegasi.
‘Fascinating,’ he said. ‘Such manoeuvrability! How does
the wingspan compensate for the weight of the horse’s
body, I wonder?’
Blackjack cocked his head. Whaaaat?
777
‘Why, if the British had had these pegasi in the cavalry
charges in the Crimea,’ Dr Chase said, ‘the charge of the
Light Brigade –’
‘Dad!’ Annabeth interrupted.
Dr Chase blinked. He looked at his daughter and managed
a smile. ‘I’m sorry, my dear. I know you must go.’
He gave her one last awkward, well-meaning hug. As she
turned to climb aboard the pegasus Guido, Dr Chase called,
‘Annabeth. I know… I know San Francisco is a dangerous
place for you. But please remember you always have a
home with us. We will keep you safe.’
Annabeth didn’t answer, but her eyes were red as she
turned away. Dr Chase started to say more, then apparently
thought better of it. He raised his hand in sad farewell and
trudged away across the dark ﬁeld.
Thalia and Annabeth and I mounted our pegasi. Together
we soared over the bay and ﬂew towards the eastern hills.
Soon San Francisco was only a glittering crescent behind us,
with an occasional ﬂicker of lightning in the north.
Thalia was so exhausted she fell asleep on Porkpie’s back. I
knew she had to be really tired to sleep in the air, despite
her fear of heights, but she didn’t have much to worry
about. Her pegasus ﬂew with ease, adjusting himself every
once in a while so Thalia stayed safely on his back.
Annabeth and I ﬂew along side by side.
‘Your dad seems cool,’ I told her.
It was too dark to see her expression. She looked back,
even though California was far behind us now.
‘I guess so,’ she said. ‘We’ve been arguing for so many
years.’
‘Yeah, you said.’
‘You think I was lying about that?’ It sounded like a
challenge, but a pretty half-hearted one, like she was asking
it of herself.
778
‘I didn’t say you were lying. It’s just… he seems okay. Your
stepmom, too. Maybe they’ve, uh, got cooler since you saw
them last.’
She hesitated. ‘They’re still in San Francisco, Percy. I can’t
live so far from camp.’
I didn’t want to ask my next question. I was scared to
know the answer. But I asked it anyway. ‘So what are you
going to do now?’
We ﬂew over a town, an island of lights in the middle of
the dark. It whisked by so fast we might’ve been in an
aeroplane.
‘I don’t know,’ she admitted. ‘But thank you for rescuing
me.’
‘Hey, no big deal. We’re friends.’
‘You didn’t believe I was dead?’
‘Never.’
She hesitated. ‘Neither is Luke, you know. I mean… he
isn’t dead.’
I stared at her. I didn’t know if she was cracking under the
stress or what. ‘Annabeth, that fall was pretty bad. There’s
no way –’
‘He isn’t dead,’ she insisted. ‘I know it. The same way you
knew about me.’
That comparison didn’t make me too happy.
The towns were zipping by faster now, islands of light
thicker together, until the whole landscape below was a
glittering carpet. Dawn was close. The eastern sky was
turning grey. And, up ahead, a huge white-and-yellow glow
spread out before us – the lights of New York.
How’s that for speedy, boss? Blackjack bragged. We get
extra hay for breakfast or what?
‘You’re the man, Blackjack,’ I told him. ‘Er, the horse, I
mean.’
‘You don’t believe me about Luke,’ Annabeth said, ‘but
we’ll see him again. He’s in trouble, Percy. He’s under
Kronos’s spell.’
779
I didn’t feel like arguing, though it made me mad. How
could she still have any feelings for that creep? How could
she possibly make excuses for him? He deserved that fall.
He deserved… okay, I’ll say it. He deserved to die. Unlike
Bianca. Unlike Zoë. Luke couldn’t be alive. It wouldn’t be
fair.
‘There it is.’ Thalia’s voice; she’d woken up. She was
pointing towards Manhattan, which was quickly zooming
into view. ‘It’s started.’
‘What’s started?’ I asked.
Then I looked where she was pointing. High above the
Empire State Building, Olympus was its own island of light, a
ﬂoating mountain ablaze with torches and braziers, white
marble palaces gleaming in the early morning air.
‘The winter solstice,’ Thalia said. ‘The Council of the
Gods.’
780
19    The Gods Vote How To Kill Us
 
Flying was bad enough for a son of Poseidon, but ﬂying
straight up to Zeus’s palace, with thunder and lightning
swirling round it, was even worse.
We 
circled 
over 
midtown 
Manhattan, 
making 
one
complete orbit round Mount Olympus. I’d only been there
once before, travelling by elevator up to the secret six
hundredth ﬂoor of the Empire State Building. This time, if it
were possible, Olympus amazed me even more.
In the early-morning darkness, torches and ﬁres made the
mountainside palaces glow twenty diﬀerent colours, from
blood red to indigo. Apparently no one ever slept on
Olympus. The twisting streets were full of demigods and
nature spirits and minor godlings bustling about, riding
chariots or sedan chairs carried by Cyclopes. Winter didn’t
seem to exist here. I caught the scent of the gardens in full
bloom, jasmine and roses and even sweeter things I couldn’t
name. Music drifted up from many windows, the soft sounds
of lyres and reed pipes.
Towering at the peak of the mountain was the greatest
palace of all, the glowing white hall of the gods.
Our pegasi set us down in the outer courtyard, in front of
huge silver gates. Before I could even think to knock, the
gates opened by themselves.
Good luck, boss, Blackjack said.
‘Yeah.’ I didn’t know why, but I had a sense of doom. I’d
never seen all the gods together. I knew any one of them
could blast me to dust, and a few of them would like to.
781
Hey, if ya don’t come back, can I have your cabin for my
stable?
I looked at the pegasus.
Just a thought, he said. Sorry.
Blackjack and his friends ﬂew oﬀ, leaving Thalia,
Annabeth and me alone. For a minute we stood there
regarding the palace, the way we’d stood together in front
of Westover Hall, that seemed like a million years ago.
And then, side by side, we walked into the throne room.
Twelve enormous thrones made a U round a central hearth,
just like the placement of the cabins at camp. The ceiling
above glittered with constellations – even the newest one,
Zoë the Huntress, making her way across the heavens with
her bow drawn.
All of the seats were occupied. Each god and goddess was
about ﬁve metres tall, and I’m telling you, if you’ve ever had
a dozen all-powerful super-huge beings turn their eyes on
you at once… Well, suddenly, facing monsters seemed like a
picnic.
‘Welcome, heroes,’ Artemis said.
‘Mooo!’
That’s when I noticed Bessie and Grover.
A sphere of water was hovering in the centre of the room,
next to the hearth ﬁre. Bessie was swimming happily
around, swishing his serpent tail and poking his head out of
the sides and the bottom of the sphere. He seemed to be
enjoying the novelty of swimming in a magic bubble. Grover
was kneeling at Zeus’s throne, as if he’d just been giving a
report, but, when he saw us, he cried, ‘You made it!’
He started to run towards me, then remembered he was
turning his back on Zeus, and looked for permission.
‘Go on,’ Zeus said. But he wasn’t really paying attention
to Grover. The lord of the sky was staring intently at Thalia.
Grover trotted over. None of the gods spoke. Every clop of
Grover’s hooves echoed on the marble ﬂoor. Bessie
782
splashed in his bubble of water. The hearth ﬁre crackled.
I looked nervously at my father, Poseidon. He was dressed
similarly to the last time I’d seen him: beach shorts, a
Hawaiian shirt and sandals. He had a weathered, suntanned
face with a dark beard and deep green eyes. I wasn’t sure
how he would feel about seeing me again, but the corners of
his eyes crinkled with smile lines. He nodded as if to say It’s
okay.
Grover gave Annabeth and Thalia big hugs. Then he
grasped my arms. ‘Percy, Bessie and I made it! But you
have to convince them! They can’t do it!’
‘Do what?’ I asked.
‘Heroes,’ Artemis called.
The goddess slid down from her throne and turned to
human size, a young auburn-haired girl, perfectly at ease in
the midst of the giant Olympians. She walked towards us,
her silver robes shimmering. There was no emotion in her
face. She seemed to walk in a column of moonlight.
‘The Council has been informed of your deeds,’ Artemis
told us. ‘They know that Mount Othrys is rising in the West.
They know of Atlas’s attempt for freedom, and the gathering
armies of Kronos. We have voted to act.’
There was some mumbling and shuﬄing among the gods,
as if they weren’t all happy with this plan, but nobody
protested.
‘At my Lord Zeus’s command,’ Artemis said, ‘my brother
Apollo and I shall hunt the most powerful monsters, seeking
to strike them down before they can join the Titans’ cause.
Lady Athena shall personally check on the other Titans to
make sure they do not escape their various prisons. Lord
Poseidon has been given permission to unleash his full fury
on the cruise ship Princess Andromeda and send it to the
bottom of the sea. And as for you, my heroes…’
She turned to face the other immortals. ‘These half-bloods
have done Olympus a great service. Would any here deny
that?’
783
She looked around at the assembled gods, meeting their
faces individually. Zeus in his dark pinstriped suit, his black
beard neatly trimmed, and his eyes sparking with energy.
Next to him sat a beautiful woman with silver hair braided
over one shoulder and a dress that shimmered with colours
like peacock feathers. The Lady Hera.
On Zeus’s right, my father Poseidon. Next to him, a huge
lump of a man with a leg in a steel brace, a misshapen head
and a wild brown beard, ﬁre ﬂickering through his whiskers.
The Lord of the Forges, Hephaestus.
Hermes winked at me. He was wearing a business suit
today, checking messages on his caduceus cell phone.
Apollo leaned back in his golden throne with his shades on.
He had iPod headphones on, so I wasn’t sure he was even
listening, but he gave me a thumbs-up. Dionysus looked
bored, twirling a grapevine between his ﬁngers. And Ares,
well, he sat on his chrome-and-leather throne, glowering at
me while he sharpened a knife.
On the ladies’ side of the throne room, a dark-haired
goddess in green robes sat next to Hera on a throne woven
of apple-tree branches. Demeter, Goddess of the Harvest.
Next to her sat a beautiful grey-eyed woman in an elegant
white dress. She could only be Annabeth’s mother, Athena.
Then there was Aphrodite, who smiled at me knowingly and
made me blush in spite of myself.
All the Olympians in one place. So much power in this
room it was a miracle the whole palace didn’t blow apart.
‘I gotta say,’ Apollo broke the silence, ‘these kids did
okay.’ He cleared his throat and began to recite: ‘Heroes win
laurels –’
‘Um, yes, ﬁrst class,’ Hermes interrupted, like he was
anxious to avoid Apollo’s poetry. ‘All in favour of not
disintegrating them?’
A few tentative hands went up – Demeter, Aphrodite.
‘Wait just a minute,’ Ares growled. He pointed at Thalia
and me. ‘These two are dangerous. It’d be much safer, while
784
we’ve got them here –’
‘Ares,’ Poseidon interrupted, ‘they are worthy heroes. We
will not blast my son to bits.’
‘Nor my daughter,’ Zeus grumbled. ‘She has done well.’
Thalia blushed. She studied the ﬂoor. I knew how she felt.
I’d hardly ever talked to my father, much less got a
compliment.
The goddess Athena cleared her throat and sat forward. ‘I
am proud of my daughter as well. But there is a security risk
here, with the other two.’
‘Mother!’ Annabeth said. ‘How can you –’
Athena cut her oﬀ with a calm but ﬁrm look. ‘It is
unfortunate that my father, Zeus, and my uncle, Poseidon,
chose to break their oath not to have more children. Only
Hades kept his word, a fact that I ﬁnd ironic. As we know
from the Great Prophecy, children of the three elder gods…
such as Thalia and Percy… are dangerous. As thickheaded
as he is, Ares has a point.’
‘Right!’ Ares said. ‘Hey, wait a minute. Who you callin’ –’
He started to get up, but a grapevine grew round his waist
like a seat belt and pulled him back down.
‘Oh, please, Ares,’ Dionysus sighed. ‘Save the ﬁghting for
later.’
Ares cursed and ripped away the vine. ‘You’re one to talk,
you old drunk. You seriously want to protect these brats?’
Dionysus gazed down at us wearily. ‘I have no love for
them. Athena, do you truly think it safest to destroy them?’
‘I do not pass judgement,’ Athena said. ‘I only point out
the risk. What we do, the Council must decide.’
‘I will not have them punished,’ Artemis said. ‘I will have
them rewarded. If we destroy heroes who do us a great
favour, then we are no better than the Titans. If this is
Olympian justice, I will have none of it.’
‘Calm down, sis,’ Apollo said. ‘Jeez, you need to lighten
up.’
‘Don’t call me sis! I will reward them.’
785
‘Well,’ Zeus grumbled. ‘Perhaps. But the monster at least
must be destroyed. We have agreement on that?’
A lot of nodding heads.
It took me a second to realize what they were saying.
Then my heart turned to lead. ‘Bessie? You want to destroy
Bessie?’
‘Mooooooo!’ Bessie protested.
My father frowned. ‘You have named the Ophiotaurus
Bessie?’
‘Dad,’ I said, ‘he’s just a sea creature. A really nice sea
creature. You can’t destroy him.’
Poseidon shifted uncomfortably. ‘Percy, the monster’s
power is considerable. If the Titans were to steal it, or –’
‘You can’t,’ I insisted. I looked at Zeus. I probably should
have been afraid of him, but I stared him right in the eye.
‘Controlling the prophecies never works. Isn’t that true?
Besides, 
Bess– 
the 
Ophiotaurus 
is 
innocent. 
Killing
something like that is wrong. It’s just as wrong as… as
Kronos eating his children, just because of something they
might do. It’s wrong!’
Zeus seemed to consider this. His eyes drifted to his
daughter Thalia. ‘And what of the risk? Kronos knows full
well, if one of you were to sacriﬁce the beast’s entrails, you
would have the power to destroy us. Do you think we can let
that possibility remain? You, my daughter, will turn sixteen
on the morrow, just as the prophecy says.’
‘You have to trust them,’ Annabeth spoke up. ‘Sir, you
have to trust them.’
Zeus scowled. ‘Trust a hero?’
‘Annabeth is right,’ Artemis said. ‘Which is why I must ﬁrst
make a reward. My faithful companion, Zoë Nightshade, has
passed into the stars. I must have a new lieutenant. And I
intend to choose one. But ﬁrst, Father Zeus, I must speak to
you privately.’
Zeus beckoned Artemis forward. He leaned down and
listened as she spoke in his ear.
786
A feeling of panic seized me. ‘Annabeth,’ I said under my
breath. ‘Don’t.’
She frowned at me. ‘What?’
‘Look, I need to tell you something,’ I continued. The
words came stumbling out of me. ‘I couldn’t stand it if… I
don’t want you to –’
‘Percy?’ she said. ‘You look like you’re going to be sick.’
And that’s how I felt. I wanted to say more, but my tongue
betrayed me. It wouldn’t move because of the fear in my
stomach. And then Artemis turned.
‘I shall have a new lieutenant,’ she announced. ‘If she will
accept it.’
‘No,’ I murmured.
‘Thalia,’ Artemis said. ‘Daughter of Zeus. Will you join the
Hunt?’
Stunned silence ﬁlled the room. I stared at Thalia, unable
to believe what I was hearing. Annabeth smiled. She
squeezed Thalia’s hand and let it go, as if she’d been
expecting this all along.
‘I will,’ Thalia said ﬁrmly.
Zeus rose, his eyes full of concern. ‘My daughter, consider
well –’
‘Father,’ she said. ‘I will not turn sixteen tomorrow. I will
never turn sixteen. I won’t let this prophecy be mine. I stand
with my sister Artemis. Kronos will never tempt me again.’
She knelt before the goddess and began the words I
remembered from Bianca’s oath, that seemed like so long
ago. ‘I pledge myself to the goddess Artemis. I turn my back
on the company of men…’
Afterwards, Thalia did something that surprised me almost
as much as the pledge. She came over to me, smiled and, in
front of the whole assembly, she gave me a big hug.
I blushed.
When she pulled away and gripped my shoulders, I said,
‘Um… aren’t you supposed to not do that any more? Hug
787
boys, I mean?’
‘I’m honouring a friend,’ she corrected. ‘I must join the
Hunt, Percy. I haven’t known peace since… since Half-Blood
Hill. I ﬁnally feel like I have a home. But you’re a hero. You
will be the one of the prophecy.’
‘Great,’ I muttered.
‘I’m proud to be your friend.’
She hugged Annabeth, who was trying hard not to cry.
Then she even hugged Grover, who looked ready to pass
out, like somebody had just given him an all-you-can-eat
enchilada coupon.
Then Thalia went to stand by Artemis’s side.
‘Now for the Ophiotaurus,’ Artemis said.
‘This boy is still dangerous,’ Dionysus warned. ‘The beast
is a temptation to great power. Even if we spare the boy –’
‘No.’ I looked around at all the gods. ‘Please. Keep the
Ophiotaurus safe. My dad can hide him under the sea
somewhere, or keep him in an aquarium here in Olympus.
But you have to protect him.’
‘And why should we trust you?’ rumbled Hephaestus.
‘I’m only fourteen,’ I said. ‘If this prophecy is about me,
that’s two more years.’
‘Two years for Kronos to deceive you,’ Athena said. ‘Much
can change in two years, my young hero.’
‘Mother!’ Annabeth said, exasperated.
‘It is only the truth, child. It is bad strategy to keep the
animal alive. Or the boy.’
My father stood. ‘I will not have a sea creature destroyed
if I can help it. And I can help it.’
He held out his hand, and a trident appeared in it: a six-
metre-long bronze shaft with three spear tips that
shimmered with blue, watery light. ‘I will vouch for the boy,
and the safety of the Ophiotaurus.’
‘You won’t take it under the sea!’ Zeus stood suddenly. ‘I
won’t have that kind of bargaining chip in your possession.’
‘Brother, please,’ Poseidon sighed.
788
Zeus’s lightning bolt appeared in his hand, a shaft of
electricity that ﬁlled the whole room with ozone storm smell.
‘Fine,’ Poseidon said. ‘I will build an aquarium for the
creature here. Hephaestus can help me. The creature will be
safe. We shall protect it with all our powers. The boy will not
betray us. I vouch for this on my honour.’
Zeus thought about this. ‘All in favour?’
To my surprise, a lot of hands went up. Dionysus
abstained. So did Ares and Athena. But everybody else…
‘We have a majority,’ Zeus decreed. ‘And so, since we will
not be destroying these heroes… I imagine we should
honour them. Let the triumph celebration begin!’
There are parties, and then there are huge, major, blowout
parties. And then there are Olympian parties. If you ever get
a choice, go for the Olympian.
The Nine Muses cranked up the tunes, and I realized the
music was whatever you wanted it to be: the gods could
listen to classical and the younger demigods heard hip-hop
or whatever, and it was all the same soundtrack. No
arguments. No ﬁghts to change the radio station. Just
requests to crank it up.
Dionysus went around growing refreshment stands out of
the ground, and a beautiful woman walked with him arm in
arm – his wife, Ariadne. Dionysus looked happy for the ﬁrst
time. 
Nectar 
and 
ambrosia 
overﬂowed 
from 
golden
fountains, and platters of mortal snack food crowded the
banquet tables. Golden goblets ﬁlled with whatever drink
you wanted. Grover trotted around with a full plate of tin
cans and enchiladas, and his goblet was full of double-
espresso latte, which he kept muttering over like an
incantation: ‘Pan! Pan!’
Gods kept coming over to congratulate me. Thankfully,
they had reduced themselves to human size so they didn’t
accidentally trample party goers under their feet. Hermes
started chatting with me, and he was so cheerful I hated to
789
tell him what had happened to his least-favourite son Luke,
but before I could even get up the courage, Hermes got a
call on his caduceus and walked away.
Apollo told me I could drive his sun chariot any time, and
if I ever wanted archery lessons –
‘Thanks,’ I told him. ‘But, seriously, I’m no good at
archery.’
‘Ah, nonsense,’ he said. ‘Target practice from the chariot
as we ﬂy over the U.S.? Best fun there is!’
I made some excuses and wove through the crowds that
were dancing in the palace courtyards. I was looking for
Annabeth. Last time I saw her, she’d been dancing with
some minor godling.
Then a man’s voice behind me said, ‘You won’t let me
down, I hope.’
I turned and found Poseidon smiling at me.
‘Dad… hi.’
‘Hello, Percy. You’ve done well.’
His praise made me uneasy. I mean, it felt good, but I
knew just how much he’d put himself on the line, vouching
for me. It would’ve been a lot easier to let the others
disintegrate me.
‘I won’t let you down,’ I promised.
He nodded. I had trouble reading gods’ emotions, but I
wondered if he had some doubts.
‘Your friend Luke –’
‘He’s not my friend,’ I blurted out. Then I realized it was
probably rude to interrupt. ‘Sorry.’
‘Your former friend Luke,’ Poseidon corrected. ‘He once
promised things like that. He was Hermes’s pride and joy.
Just bear that in mind, Percy. Even the bravest can fall.’
‘Luke fell pretty hard,’ I agreed. ‘He’s dead.’
Poseidon shook his head. ‘No, Percy. He is not.’
I stared at him. ‘What?’
‘I believe Annabeth told you this. Luke still lives. I have
seen it. His boat sails from San Francisco with the remains of
790
Kronos even now. He will retreat and regroup before
assaulting you again. I will do my best to destroy his boat
with storms, but he is making alliances with my enemies,
the older spirits of the ocean. They will ﬁght to protect him.’
‘How can he be alive?’ I said. ‘That fall should’ve killed
him!’
Poseidon looked troubled. ‘I don’t know, Percy, but beware
of him. He is more dangerous than ever. And the golden
coﬃn is still with him, still growing in strength.’
‘What about Atlas?’ I said. ‘What’s to prevent him from
escaping again? Couldn’t he just force some giant or
something to take the sky for him?’
My father snorted in derision. ‘If it were so easy, he would
have escaped long ago. No, my son. The curse of the sky
can only be forced upon a Titan, one of the children of Gaia
and Ouranous. Anyone else must choose to take the burden
of their own free will. Only a hero, someone with strength, a
true heart, and great courage, would do such a thing. No
one in Kronos’s army would dare try to bear that weight,
even upon pain of death.’
‘Luke did it,’ I said. ‘He let Atlas go. Then he tricked
Annabeth into saving him and used her to convince Artemis
to take the sky.’
‘Yes,’ Poseidon said. ‘Luke is… an interesting case.’
I think he wanted to say more, but just then Bessie started
mooing from across the courtyard. Some demigods were
playing with his water sphere, joyously pushing it back and
forth over the top of the crowd.
‘I’d better take care of that,’ Poseidon grumbled. ‘We can’t
have the Ophiotaurus tossed around like a beach ball. Be
good, my son. We may not speak again for some time.’
And just like that he was gone.
I was about to keep searching the crowd when another
voice spoke. ‘Your father takes a great risk, you know.’
I found myself face to face with the grey-eyed woman who
looked so much like Annabeth I almost called her that.
791
‘Athena.’ I tried not to sound resentful, after the way she’d
written me oﬀ in the council, but I guess I didn’t hide it very
well.
She smiled dryly. ‘Do not judge me too harshly, half-blood.
Wise counsel is not always popular, but I spoke the truth.
You are dangerous.’
‘You never take risks?’
She nodded. ‘I concede the point. You may perhaps be
useful. And yet… your fatal ﬂaw may destroy us as well as
yourself.’
My heart crept into my throat. A year ago, Annabeth and I
had had a talk about fatal ﬂaws. Every hero had one. Hers,
she said, was pride. She believed she could do anything…
like holding up the world, for instance. Or saving Luke. But I
didn’t really know what mine was.
Athena looked almost sorry for me. ‘Kronos knows your
ﬂaw, even if you do not. He knows how to study his
enemies. Think, Percy. How has he manipulated you? First,
your mother was taken from you. Then your best friend,
Grover. 
Now 
my 
daughter, 
Annabeth.’ 
She 
paused,
disapproving. ‘In each case, your loved ones have been
used to lure you into Kronos’s traps. Your fatal ﬂaw is
personal loyalty, Percy. You do not know when it is time to
cut your losses. To save a friend, you would sacriﬁce the
world. In a hero of the prophecy, that is very, very
dangerous.’
I balled my ﬁsts. ‘That’s not a ﬂaw. Just because I want to
help my friends –’
‘The most dangerous ﬂaws are those which are good in
moderation,’ she said. ‘Evil is easy to ﬁght. Lack of
wisdom… that is very hard indeed.’
I wanted to argue, but I found I couldn’t. Athena was
pretty darn smart.
‘I hope the Council’s decisions prove wise,’ Athena said.
‘But I will be watching, Percy Jackson. I do not approve of
your friendship with my daughter. I do not think it wise for
792
either of you. And should you begin to waver in your
loyalties…’
She ﬁxed me with her cold grey stare, and I realized what
a terrible enemy Athena would make, ten times worse than
Ares or Dionysus or maybe even my father. Athena would
never give up. She would never do something rash or stupid
just because she hated you, and, if she made a plan to
destroy you, it would not fail.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth said, running through the crowd. She
stopped short when she saw who I was talking to. ‘Oh…
Mom.’
‘I will leave you,’ Athena said. ‘For now.’
She turned and strode through the crowds, which parted
before her as if she were carrying Aegis.
‘Was she giving you a hard time?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ I said. ‘It’s… ﬁne.’
She studied me with concern. She touched the new streak
of grey in my hair that matched hers exactly – our painful
souvenir from holding Atlas’s burden. There was a lot I’d
wanted to say to Annabeth, but Athena had taken the
conﬁdence out of me. I felt like I’d been punched in the gut.
I do not approve of your friendship with my daughter.
‘So,’ Annabeth said. ‘What did you want to tell me
earlier?’
The music was playing. People were dancing in the
streets. I said, ‘I, uh, was thinking we got interrupted at
Westover Hall. And… I think I owe you a dance.’
She smiled slowly. ‘All right, Seaweed Brain.’
So I took her hand, and I don’t know what everybody else
heard, but to me it sounded like a slow dance: a little sad,
but maybe a little hopeful, too.
793
20    I Get A New Enemy For Christmas
 
Before I left Olympus, I decided to make a few calls. It
wasn’t easy, but I ﬁnally found a quiet fountain in a corner
garden and sent an Iris-message to my brother Tyson, under
the sea. I told him about our adventures, and Bessie – he
wanted to hear every detail about the cute baby cow
serpent – and I assured him that Annabeth was safe. Finally I
got round to explaining how the shield he’d made me last
summer had been damaged in the manticore attack.
‘Yay!’ Tyson said. ‘That means it was good! It saved your
life!’
‘It sure did, big guy,’ I said. ‘But now it’s ruined.’
‘Not ruined!’ Tyson promised. ‘I will visit and ﬁx it next
summer.’
The idea picked me up instantly. I guess I hadn’t realized
how much I missed having Tyson around.
‘Seriously?’ I asked. ‘They’ll let you take time oﬀ?’
‘Yes! I have made two thousand seven hundred and forty-
one magic swords,’ Tyson said proudly, showing me the
newest blade. ‘The boss says “good work!” He will let me
take the whole summer oﬀ. I will visit camp!’
We talked for a while about war preparations and our
dad’s ﬁght with the old sea gods, and all the cool things we
could do together next summer, but then Tyson’s boss
started yelling at him and he had to get back to work.
I dug out my last golden drachma and made one more
Iris-message.
‘Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘Upper East Side, Manhattan.’
794
The mist shimmered, and there was my mom at our
kitchen table, laughing and holding hands with her friend Mr
Blowﬁsh.
I felt so embarrassed, I was about to wave my hand
through the mist and cut the connection but, before I could,
my mom saw me.
Her eyes got wide. She let go of Mr Blowﬁsh’s hand really
quickly. ‘Oh, Paul! You know what? I left my writing journal in
the living room. Would you mind getting it for me?’
‘Sure, Sally. No problem.’
He left the room, and instantly my mom leaned towards
the Iris-message. ‘Percy! Are you all right?’
‘I’m, uh, ﬁne. How’s that writing seminar going?’
She pursed her lips. ‘It’s ﬁne. But that’s not important. Tell
me what’s happened!’
I ﬁlled her in as quickly as I could. She sighed with relief
when she heard that Annabeth was safe.
‘I knew you could do it!’ she said. ‘I’m so proud.’
‘Yeah, well, I’d better let you get back to your homework.’
‘Percy, I… Paul and I –’
‘Mom, are you happy?’
The question seemed to take her by surprise. She thought
for a moment. ‘Yes. I really am, Percy. Being around him
makes me happy.’
‘Then it’s cool. Seriously. Don’t worry about me.’
The funny thing was, I meant it. Considering the quest I’d
just had, maybe I should have been worried for my mom. I’d
seen just how mean people could be to each other, like
Hercules was to Zoë Nightshade, like Luke was to Thalia. I’d
met Aphrodite, Goddess of Love, in person, and her powers
had scared me worse than Ares. But seeing my mother
laughing and smiling, after all the years she’d suﬀered with
my nasty ex-stepfather, Gabe Ugliano, I couldn’t help
feeling happy for her.
‘You promise not to call him Mr Blowﬁsh?’ she asked.
I shrugged. ‘Well, maybe not to his face, anyway.’
795
‘Sally?’ Mr Bloﬁs called from our living room. ‘You need the
green binder or the red one?’
‘I’d better go,’ she told me. ‘See you for Christmas?’
‘Are you putting blue candy in my stocking?’
She smiled. ‘If you’re not too old for that.’
‘I’m never too old for candy.’
‘I’ll see you then.’
She waved her hand across the mist. Her image
disappeared, and I thought to myself that Thalia had been
right, so many days ago at Westover Hall: my mom really
was pretty cool.
Compared to Mount Olympus, Manhattan was quiet. Friday
before Christmas, but it was early in the morning, and
hardly anyone was on Fifth Avenue. Argus, the many-eyed
security chief, picked up Annabeth, Grover and me at the
Empire State Building and ferried us back to camp through a
light snowstorm. The Long Island Expressway was almost
deserted.
As we trudged back up Half-Blood Hill to the pine tree
where the Golden Fleece glittered, I half expected to see
Thalia there, waiting for us. But she wasn’t. She was long
gone with Artemis and the rest of the Hunters, oﬀ on their
next adventure.
Chiron greeted us at the Big House with hot chocolate and
toasted cheese sandwiches. Grover went oﬀ with his satyr
friends to spread the word about our strange encounter with
the magic of Pan. Within an hour, the satyrs were all running
around agitated, asking where the nearest espresso bar
was.
Annabeth and I sat with Chiron and some of the other
senior campers – Beckendorf, Silena Beauregard and the
Stoll brothers. Even Clarisse from the Ares cabin was there,
back from her secretive scouting mission. I knew she
must’ve had a diﬃcult quest, because she didn’t even try to
pulverize me. She had a new scar on her chin, and her dirty
796
blonde hair had been cut short and ragged, like someone
had attacked it with a pair of safety scissors.
‘I got news,’ she mumbled uneasily. ‘Bad news.’
‘I’ll ﬁll you in later,’ Chiron said with forced cheerfulness.
‘The important thing is you have prevailed. And you saved
Annabeth!’
Annabeth smiled at me gratefully, which made me look
away.
For some strange reason, I found myself thinking about
the Hoover Dam, and the odd mortal girl I’d run into there,
Rachel Elizabeth Dare. I didn’t know why, but her annoying
comments kept coming back to me. Do you always kill
people when they blow their nose? I was only alive because
so many people had helped me, even a random mortal girl
like that. I’d never even explained to her who I was.
‘Luke is alive,’ I said. ‘Annabeth was right.’
Annabeth sat up. ‘How do you know?’
I tried not to feel annoyed by her interest. I told her what
my dad had said about the Princess Andromeda.
‘Well.’ Annabeth shifted uncomfortably in her chair. ‘If the
ﬁnal battle does come when Percy is sixteen, at least we
have two more years to ﬁgure something out.’
I had a feeling that when she said ‘ﬁgure something out’,
she meant ‘get Luke to change his ways’, which annoyed
me even more.
Chiron’s expression was gloomy. Sitting by the ﬁre in his
wheelchair, he looked really old. I mean… he was really old,
but he usually didn’t look it.
‘Two years may seem like a long time,’ he said. ‘But it is
the blink of an eye. I still hope you are not the child of the
prophecy, Percy. But, if you are, then the second Titan war is
almost upon us. Kronos’s ﬁrst strike will be here.’
‘How do you know?’ I asked. ‘Why would he care about
camp?’
‘Because the gods use heroes as their tools,’ Chiron said
simply. ‘Destroy the tools, and the gods will be crippled.
797
Luke’s forces will come here. Mortal, demigod, monstrous…
We must be prepared. Clarisse’s news may give us a clue as
to how they will attack, but –’
There was a knock on the door, and Nico di Angelo came
huﬃng into the parlour, his cheeks bright red from the cold.
He was smiling, but he looked around anxiously. ‘Hey!
Where’s… where’s my sister?’
Dead silence. I stared at Chiron. I couldn’t believe nobody
had told him yet. And then I realized why. They’d been
waiting for us to appear, to tell Nico in person.
That was the last thing I wanted to do. But I owed it to
Bianca.
‘Hey, Nico.’ I got up from my comfortable chair. ‘Let’s take
a walk, okay? We need to talk.’
He took the news in silence, which somehow made it worse.
I kept talking, trying to explain how it had happened, how
Bianca had sacriﬁced herself to save the quest. But I felt like
I was only making things worse.
‘She wanted you to have this.’ I brought out the little god
ﬁgurine Bianca had found in the junkyard. Nico held it in his
palm and stared at it.
We were standing at the dining pavilion, just where we’d
last spoken before I went on the quest. The wind was
bitterly cold, even with the camp’s magical weather
protection. Snow fell lightly against the marble steps. I
ﬁgured outside the camp borders there must be a blizzard
happening.
‘You promised you would protect her,’ Nico said.
He might as well have stabbed me with a rusty dagger. It
would’ve hurt less than reminding me of my promise.
‘Nico,’ I said. ‘I tried. But Bianca gave herself up to save
the rest of us. I told her not to. But she –’
‘You promised!’
He glared at me, his eyes rimmed with red. He closed his
small ﬁst round the god statue.
798
‘I shouldn’t have trusted you.’ His voice broke. ‘You lied to
me. My nightmares were right!’
‘Wait. What nightmares?’
He ﬂung the god statue to ground. It clattered across the
icy marble. ‘I hate you!’
‘She might be alive,’ I said desperately. ‘I don’t know for
sure –’
‘She’s dead.’ He closed his eyes. His whole body trembled
with rage. ‘I should’ve known it earlier. She’s in the Fields of
Asphodel, standing before the judges right now, being
evaluated. I can feel it.’
‘What do you mean, you can feel it?’
Before he could answer, I heard a new sound behind me.
A hissing, clattering noise I recognized all too well.
I drew my sword and Nico gasped. I whirled and found
myself facing four skeleton warriors. They grinned ﬂeshless
grins and advanced with swords drawn. I don’t know how
they’d made it inside the camp, but it didn’t matter. I’d
never get help in time.
‘You’re trying to kill me!’ Nico screamed. ‘You brought
these… these things?’
‘No! I mean, yes, they followed me, but no! Nico, run.
They can’t be destroyed.’
‘I don’t trust you!’
The ﬁrst skeleton charged. I knocked aside its blade, but
the other three kept coming. I sliced one in half, but
immediately it began to knit back together. I knocked
another’s head oﬀ but it just kept ﬁghting.
‘Run, Nico!’ I yelled. ‘Get help!’
‘No!’ He pressed his hands to his ears.
I couldn’t ﬁght four at once, not if they wouldn’t die. I
slashed, whirled, blocked, jabbed, but they just kept
advancing. It was only a matter of seconds before the
zombies overpowered me.
‘No!’ Nico shouted louder. ‘GO AWAY!’
799
The ground rumbled beneath me. The skeletons froze. I
rolled out of the way just as a crack opened at the feet of
the four warriors. The ground ripped apart like a snapping
mouth. Flames erupted from the ﬁssure, and the earth
swallowed the skeletons in one loud CRUNCH!
Silence.
In the place where the skeletons had stood, a six-metre-
long scar wove across the marble ﬂoor of the pavilion.
Otherwise there was no sign of the warriors.
Awestruck, I looked to Nico. ‘How did you –’
‘Go away!’ he yelled. ‘I hate you! I wish you were dead!’
The ground didn’t swallow me up, but Nico ran, down the
steps, heading towards the woods. I started to follow but
slipped and fell on the icy steps. When I got up, I noticed
what I’d slipped on.
I picked up the god statue Bianca had retrieved from the
junkyard for Nico. The only statue he didn’t have, she’d said.
A last gift from his sister.
I stared at it with dread, because now I understood why
the face looked familiar. I’d seen it before.
It was a statue of Hades, Lord of the Dead.
Annabeth and Grover helped me search the woods for
hours, but there was no sign of Nico di Angelo.
‘We have to tell Chiron,’ Annabeth said, out of breath.
‘No,’ I said.
She and Grover both stared at me.
‘Um,’ Grover said nervously, ‘what do you mean… no?’
I was still trying to ﬁgure out why I’d said that, but the
words spilled out of me. ‘We can’t let anyone know. I don’t
think anyone realizes that Nico is a –’
‘A son of Hades,’ Annabeth said. ‘Percy, do you have any
idea how serious this is? Even Hades broke the oath! This is
horrible!’
‘I don’t think so,’ I said. ‘I don’t think Hades broke the
oath.’
800
‘What?’
‘He’s their dad,’ I said, ‘but Bianca and Nico have been
out of commission for a long time, since even before World
War II.’
‘The Lotus Casino!’ Grover said, and he told Annabeth
about the conversations we’d had with Bianca on the quest.
‘She and Nico were stuck there for decades. They were born
before the oath was made.’
I nodded.
‘But how did they get out?’ Annabeth protested.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘Bianca said a lawyer came and
got them and drove them to Westover Hall. I don’t know
who that could’ve been, or why. Maybe it’s part of this Great
Stirring thing. I don’t think Nico understands who he is. But
we can’t go telling anyone. Not even Chiron. If the
Olympians ﬁnd out –’
‘It might start them ﬁghting among each other again,’
Annabeth said. ‘That’s the last thing we need.’
Grover looked worried. ‘But you can’t hide things from the
gods. Not forever.’
‘I don’t need forever,’ I said. ‘Just two years. Until I’m
sixteen.’
Annabeth paled. ‘But, Percy, this means the prophecy
might not be about you. It might be about Nico. We have to
–’
‘No,’ I said. ‘I choose the prophecy. It will be about me.’
‘Why are you saying that?’ she cried. ‘You want to be
responsible for the whole world?’
It was the last thing I wanted, but I didn’t say that. I knew
I had to step up and claim it.
‘I can’t let Nico be in any more danger,’ I said. ‘I owe that
much to his sister. I… let them both down. I’m not going to
let that poor kid suﬀer any more.’
‘The poor kid who hates you and wants to see you dead,’
Grover reminded me.
801
‘Maybe we can ﬁnd him,’ I said. ‘We can convince him it’s
okay, hide him somewhere safe.’
Annabeth shivered. ‘If Luke gets hold of him –’
‘Luke won’t,’ I said. ‘I’ll make sure he’s got other things to
worry about. Namely, me.’
I wasn’t sure Chiron believed the story Annabeth and I told
him. I think he could tell I was holding something back
about Nico’s disappearance, but, in the end, he accepted it.
Unfortunately, Nico wasn’t the ﬁrst half-blood to disappear.
‘So young,’ Chiron sighed, his hands on the rail of the
front porch. ‘Alas, I hope he was eaten by monsters. Much
better than being recruited into the Titans’ army.’
That idea made me really uneasy. I almost changed my
mind about telling Chiron, but I didn’t.
‘You really think the ﬁrst attack will be here?’ I asked.
Chiron stared at the snow falling on the hills. I could see
smoke from the dragon guardian at the pine tree, the glitter
of the distant Fleece.
‘It will not be until summer, at least,’ Chiron said. ‘This
winter will be hard… the hardest for many centuries. It’s
best that you go home to the city, Percy, try to keep your
mind on school. And rest. You will need rest.’
I looked at Annabeth. ‘What about you?’
Her cheeks ﬂushed. ‘I’m going to try San Francisco after
all. Maybe I can keep an eye on Mount Tam, make sure the
Titans don’t try anything else.’
‘You’ll send an Iris-message if anything goes wrong?’
She nodded. ‘But I think Chiron’s right. It won’t be until
the summer. Luke will need time to regain his strength.’
I didn’t like the idea of waiting. Then again, next August I
would be turning ﬁfteen. So close to sixteen I didn’t want to
think about it.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Just take care of yourself. And no crazy
stunts in the Sopwith Camel.’
She smiled tentatively. ‘Deal. And, Percy –’
802
Whatever she was going to say was interrupted by Grover,
who stumbled out of the Big House, tripping over tin cans.
His face was haggard and pale, like he’d seen a spectre.
‘He spoke!’ Grover cried.
‘Calm down, my young satyr,’ Chiron said, frowning. ‘What
is the matter?’
‘I… I was playing music in the parlour,’ he stammered,
‘and drinking coﬀee. Lots and lots of coﬀee! And he spoke in
my mind!’
‘Who?’ Annabeth demanded.
‘Pan!’ Grover wailed. ‘The Lord of the Wild himself. I heard
him! I have to… I have to ﬁnd a suitcase.’
‘Whoa, whoa, whoa,’ I said. ‘What did he say?’
Grover stared at me. ‘Just three words. He said, “I await
you.” ’
803
804
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
805
Contents
 
1 • I Battle the Cheerleading Squad
 
2 • The Underworld Sends Me a Prank Call
 
3 • We Play Tag with Scorpions
 
4 • Annabeth Breaks the Rules
 
5 • Nico Buys Happy Meals for the Dead
 
6 • We Meet the God with Two Faces
 
7 • Tyson Leads a Jailbreak
 
8 • We Visit the Demon Dude Ranch
 
9 • I Scoop Poop
 
10 • We Play the Game Show of Death
 
11 • I Set Myself on Fire
 
12 • I Take a Permanent Vacation
 
13 • We Hire a New Guide
 
14 • My Brother Duels Me to the Death
 
15 • We Steal Some Slightly Used Wings
 
16 • I Open a Coﬃn
 
17 • The Lost God Speaks
 
18 • Grover Causes a Stampede
806
 
19 • The Council Gets Cloven
 
20 • My Birthday Party Takes a Dark Turn
 
807
To Becky, who always guides me through the maze
808
1    I Battle The Cheerleading Squad
 
The last thing I wanted to do on my summer break was blow
up another school. But there I was Monday morning, the ﬁrst
week of June, sitting in my mom’s car in front of Goode High
School on East 81st.
Goode was this big brownstone building overlooking the
East River. A bunch of BMWs and Lincoln Town Cars were
parked out front. Staring up at the fancy stone archway, I
wondered how long it would take me to get kicked out of
this place.
‘Just relax.’ My mom didn’t sound relaxed. ‘It’s only an
orientation tour. And remember, dear, this is Paul’s school.
So try not to, … you know.’
‘Destroy it?’
‘Yes.’
Paul Bloﬁs, my mom’s boyfriend, was standing out front,
greeting future ninth graders as they came up the steps.
With his salt-and-pepper hair, denim clothes and leather
jacket, he reminded me of a TV actor, but he was just an
English teacher. He’d managed to convince Goode High
School to accept me for ninth grade, despite the fact that I’d
been kicked out of every school I’d ever attended. I’d tried
to warn him it wasn’t a good idea, but he wouldn’t listen.
I looked at my mom. ‘You haven’t told him the truth about
me, have you?’
She tapped her ﬁngers nervously on the wheel. She was
dressed up for a job interview – her best blue dress and
high-heeled shoes.
‘I thought we should wait,’ she admitted.
809
‘So we don’t scare him away.’
‘I’m sure orientation will be ﬁne, Percy. It’s only one
morning.’
‘Great,’ I mumbled. ‘I can get expelled before I even start
the school year.’
‘Think positive. Tomorrow you’re oﬀ to camp! After
orientation, you’ve got your date –’
‘It’s not a date!’ I protested. ‘It’s just Annabeth, Mom.
Jeez!’
‘She’s coming all the way from camp to meet you.’
‘Well, yeah.’
‘You’re going to the movies.’
‘Yeah.’
‘Just the two of you.’
‘Mom!’
She held up her hands in surrender, but I could tell she
was trying hard not to smile. ‘You’d better get inside, dear.
I’ll see you tonight.’
I was about to get out of the car when I looked over at the
steps of the school. Paul Bloﬁs was greeting a girl with frizzy
red hair. She wore a maroon T-shirt and ratty jeans
decorated with marker drawings. When she turned, I caught
a glimpse of her face, and the hairs on my arms stood
straight up.
‘Percy?’ my mom asked. ‘What’s wrong?’
‘N-nothing,’ I stammered. ‘Does the school have a side
entrance?’
‘Down the block on the right. Why?’
‘I’ll see you later.’
My mom started to say something, but I got out of the car
and ran, hoping the redheaded girl wouldn’t see me.
What was she doing here? Not even my luck could be this
bad.
Yeah, right. I was about to ﬁnd out my luck could get a
whole lot worse.
810
Sneaking into orientation didn’t work out too well. Two
cheerleaders in purple-and-white uniforms were standing at
the side entrance, waiting to ambush freshmen.
‘Hi!’ They smiled, which I ﬁgured was the ﬁrst and last
time any cheerleaders would be that friendly to me. One
was blonde with icy blue eyes. The other was African
American with dark curly hair like Medusa’s (and, believe
me, I know what I’m talking about). Both girls had their
names stitched in cursive on their uniforms, but with my
dyslexia, the words looked like meaningless spaghetti.
‘Welcome to Goode,’ the blonde girl said. ‘You are so
going to love it.’
But as she looked me up and down, her expression said
something more like, Eww, who is this loser?
The other girl stepped uncomfortably close to me. I
studied the stitching on her uniform and made out: Kelli.
She smelled like roses and something else I recognized from
riding lessons at camp – the scent of freshly washed horses.
It was a weird smell for a cheerleader. Maybe she owned a
horse or something. Anyway, she stood so close I got the
feeling she was going to try to push me down the steps.
‘What’s your name, ﬁsh?’
‘Fish?’
‘Freshman.’
‘Uh, Percy.’
The girls exchanged looks.
‘Oh, Percy Jackson,’ the blonde one said. ‘We’ve been
waiting for you.’
That sent a major Uh~oh chill down my back. They were
blocking the entrance, smiling in a not-very-friendly way. My
hand crept instinctively towards my pocket, where I kept my
lethal ballpoint pen, Riptide.
Then another voice came from inside the building: ‘Percy?’
It was Paul Bloﬁs, somewhere down the hallway. I’d never
been so glad to hear his voice.
811
The cheerleaders backed oﬀ. I was so anxious to get past
them I accidentally kneed Kelli in the thigh.
Clang.
Her leg made a hollow, metallic sound, like I’d just hit a
ﬂagpole.
‘Ow,’ she muttered. ‘Watch it, ﬁsh.’
I glanced down, but her leg looked like a regular old leg. I
was too freaked out to ask questions. I dashed into the hall,
the cheerleaders laughing behind me.
‘There you are!’ Paul told me. ‘Welcome to Goode!’
‘Hey, Paul – uh, Mr Bloﬁs.’ I glanced back, but the weird
cheerleaders had disappeared.
‘Percy, you look like you’ve seen a ghost.’
‘Yeah, uh –’
Paul clapped me on the back. ‘Listen, I know you’re
nervous, but don’t worry. We get a lot of kids here with
ADHD and dyslexia. The teachers know how to help.’
I almost wanted to laugh. If only ADHD and dyslexia were
my biggest worries. I mean, I knew Paul was trying to help,
but if I told him the truth about me, he’d either think I were
crazy or he’d run away screaming. Those cheerleaders, for
instance. I had a bad feeling about them …
Then I looked down the hall, and I remembered I had
another problem. The redheaded girl I’d seen on the front
steps was just coming in the main entrance.
Don’t notice me, I prayed.
She noticed me. Her eyes widened.
‘Where’s the orientation?’ I asked Paul.
‘The gym. That way. But –’
‘Bye.’
‘Percy?’ he called, but I was already running.
I thought I’d lost her.
A bunch of kids were heading for the gym, and soon I was
just one of three hundred fourteen-year-olds all crammed
into the stands. A marching band played an out-of-tune ﬁght
812
song that sounded like somebody hitting a bag of cats with
a metal baseball bat. Older kids, probably student-council
members, stood up in front modelling the Goode school
uniform and looking all, Hey, we’re cool. Teachers milled
around, smiling and shaking hands with students. The walls
of the gym were plastered with big purple-and-white
banners that said WELCOME, FUTURE FRESHMEN, GOODE IS
GOOD, WE’RE ALL FAMILY, and a bunch of other happy
slogans that pretty much made me want to throw up.
None of the other freshmen looked thrilled to be here,
either. I mean, coming to orientation in June is not cool
when school doesn’t even start until September, but at
Goode, ‘We prepare to excel early!’ At least that’s what the
brochure said.
The marching band stopped playing. A guy in a pinstripe
suit came to the microphone and started talking, but the
sound echoed around the gym so I had no idea what he was
saying. He might’ve been gargling.
Someone grabbed my shoulder. ‘What are you doing
here?’
It was her: my redheaded nightmare.
‘Rachel Elizabeth Dare,’ I said.
Her jaw dropped like she couldn’t believe I had the nerve
to remember her name. ‘And you’re Percy somebody. I
didn’t get your full name last December when you tried to
kill me.’
‘Look, I wasn’t – I didn’t – What are you doing here?’
‘Same as you, I guess. Orientation.’
‘You live in New York?’
‘What, you thought I lived at Hoover Dam?’
It had never occurred to me. Whenever I thought about
her (and I’m not saying I thought about her; she just, like,
crossed my mind from time to time, okay?), I always ﬁgured
she lived in the Hoover Dam area, since that’s where I’d met
her. We’d spent maybe ten minutes together, during which
time I’d accidentally swung a sword at her, she’d saved my
813
life and I’d run away, chased by a band of supernatural
killing machines. You know, your typical chance meeting.
Some guy behind us whispered, ‘Hey, shut up. The
cheerleaders are talking!’
‘Hi, guys!’ a girl bubbled into the microphone. It was the
blonde I’d seen at the entrance. ‘My name is Tammi, and
this is, like, Kelli.’ Kelli did a cartwheel.
Next to me, Rachel yelped like someone had stuck her
with a pin. A few kids looked over and snickered, but Rachel
just stared at the cheerleaders in horror. Tammi didn’t seem
to notice the outburst. She started talking about all the
great ways we could get involved during our freshman year.
‘Run,’ Rachel told me. ‘Now.’
‘Why?’
Rachel didn’t explain. She pushed her way to the edge of
the stands, ignoring the frowning teachers and grumbling
kids she was stepping on.
I hesitated. Tammi was explaining how we were about to
break into small groups and tour the school. Kelli caught my
eye and gave me an amused smile, like she was waiting to
see what I’d do. It would look bad if I left right now. Paul
Bloﬁs was down there with the rest of the teachers. He’d
wonder what was wrong.
Then I thought about Rachel Elizabeth Dare, and the
special ability she’d shown last winter at Hoover Dam. She’d
been able to see a group of security guards who weren’t
guards at all, who weren’t even human. My heart pounding,
I got up and followed her out of the gym.
I found Rachel in the band room. She was hiding behind a
bass drum in the percussion section.
‘Get over here!’ she said. ‘Keep your head down!’
I felt pretty silly, hiding behind a bunch of bongos, but I
crouched beside her.
‘Did they follow you?’ Rachel asked.
‘You mean the cheerleaders?’
814
She nodded nervously.
‘I don’t think so,’ I said. ‘What are they? What did you
see?’
Her green eyes were bright with fear. She had a sprinkle
of freckles on her face that reminded me of constellations.
Her maroon T-shirt read HARVARD ART DEPT. ‘You … you
wouldn’t believe me.’
‘Oh yeah, I would,’ I promised. ‘I know you can see
through the Mist.’
‘The what?’
‘The Mist. It’s … well, it’s like this veil that hides the way
things really are. Some mortals are born with the ability to
see through it. Like you.’
She studied me carefully. ‘You did that at Hoover Dam. You
called me a mortal. Like you’re not.’
I felt like punching a bongo. What was I thinking? I could
never explain. I shouldn’t even try.
‘Tell me,’ she begged. ‘You know what it means. All these
horrible things I see?’
‘Look, this is going to sound weird. Do you know anything
about Greek myths?’
‘Like … the Minotaur and the Hydra?’
‘Yeah, just try not to say those names when I’m around,
okay?’
‘And the Furies,’ she said, warming up. ‘And the Sirens,
and –’
‘Okay!’ I looked around the band room, sure that Rachel
was going to make a bunch of bloodthirsty nasties pop out
of the walls, but we were still alone. Down the hallway, I
heard a mob of kids coming out of the gymnasium. They
were starting the group tours. We didn’t have long to talk.
‘All those monsters,’ I said, ‘all the Greek gods – they’re
real.’
‘I knew it!’
I would’ve been more comfortable if she’d called me a liar,
but Rachel looked like I’d just conﬁrmed her worst suspicion.
815
‘You don’t know how hard it’s been,’ she said. ‘For years I
thought I was going crazy. I couldn’t tell anybody. I couldn’t
–’ Her eyes narrowed. ‘Wait. Who are you? I mean really?’
‘I’m not a monster.’
‘Well, I know that. I could see if you were. You look like …
you. But you’re not human, are you?’
I swallowed. Even though I’d had three years to get used
to who I was, I’d never talked about it with a regular mortal
before – I mean, except for my mom, but she already knew. I
don’t know why, but I took the plunge.
‘I’m a half-blood,’ I said. ‘I’m half human.’
‘And half what?’
Just then Tammi and Kelli stepped into the band room. The
doors slammed shut behind them.
‘There you are, Percy Jackson,’ Tammi said. ‘It’s time for
your orientation.’
‘They’re horrible!’ Rachel gasped.
Tammi and Kelli were still wearing their purple-and-white
cheerleader costumes, holding pom-poms from the rally.
‘What do they really look like?’ I asked, but Rachel
seemed too stunned to answer.
‘Oh, forget her.’ Tammi gave me a brilliant smile and
started walking towards us. Kelli stayed by the doors,
blocking our exit.
They’d trapped us. I knew we’d have to ﬁght our way out,
but Tammi’s smile was so dazzling it distracted me. Her blue
eyes were beautiful, and the way her hair swept over her
shoulders …
‘Percy,’ Rachel warned.
I said something really intelligent like, ‘Uhhh?’
Tammi was getting closer. She held out her pompoms.
‘Percy!’ Rachel’s voice seemed to be coming from a long
way away. ‘Snap out of it!’
It took all my willpower, but I got my pen out of my pocket
and uncapped it. Riptide grew into a metre-long bronze
816
sword, its blade glowing with a faint golden light. Tammi’s
smile turned to a sneer.
‘Oh, come on,’ she protested. ‘You don’t need that. How
about a kiss instead?’
She smelled like roses and clean animal fur – a weird but
somehow intoxicating smell.
Rachel pinched my arm, hard. ‘Percy, she wants to bite
you! Look at her!’
‘She’s just jealous.’ Tammi looked back at Kelli. ‘May I,
mistress?’
Kelli was still blocking the door, licking her lips hungrily.
‘Go ahead, Tammi. You’re doing ﬁne.’
Tammi took another step forward, but I levelled the tip of
my sword at her chest. ‘Get back.’
She snarled. ‘Freshmen,’ she said with disgust. ‘This is our
school, half-blood. We feed on whom we choose!’
Then she began to change. The colour drained out of her
face and arms. Her skin turned as white as chalk, her eyes
completely red. Her teeth grew into fangs.
‘A vampire!’ I stammered. Then I noticed her legs. Below
the cheerleader skirt, her left leg was brown and shaggy,
with a donkey’s hoof. Her right leg was shaped like a human
leg, but it was made of bronze. ‘Uhh, a vampire with –’
‘Don’t mention the legs!’ Tammi snapped. ‘It’s rude to
make fun!’
She advanced on her weird, mismatched legs. She looked
totally bizarre, especially with the pom-poms, but I couldn’t
laugh – not facing those red eyes and sharp fangs.
‘A vampire, you say?’ Kelli laughed. ‘That silly legend was
based on us, you fool. We are empousai, servants of
Hecate.’
‘Mmmm.’ Tammi edged closer to me. ‘Dark magic formed
us from animal, bronze and ghost! We exist to feed on the
blood of young men. Now come, give me that kiss!’
She bared her fangs. I was so paralysed I couldn’t move,
but Rachel threw a snare drum at the empousa’s head.
817
The demon hissed and batted the drum away. It went
rolling along the aisles between music stands, its springs
rattling against the drum head. Rachel threw a xylophone,
but the demon just swatted that away, too.
‘I don’t usually kill girls,’ Tammi growled. ‘But for you,
mortal, I’ll make an exception. Your eyesight is a little too
good!’
She lunged at Rachel.
‘No!’ I slashed with Riptide. Tammi tried to dodge my
blade, but I sliced straight through her cheerleader uniform,
and with a horrible wail she exploded into dust all over
Rachel.
Rachel coughed. She looked like she’d just had a sack of
ﬂour dumped on her head. ‘Gross!’
‘Monsters do that,’ I said. ‘Sorry.’
‘You killed my trainee!’ Kelli yelled. ‘You need a lesson in
school spirit, half-blood!’
Then she, too, began to change. Her wiry hair turned to
ﬂickering ﬂames. Her eyes turned red. She grew fangs. She
loped towards us, her brass foot and hoof clopping unevenly
on the band-room ﬂoor.
‘I am senior empousa,’ she growled. ‘No hero has bested
me in a thousand years.’
‘Yeah?’ I said. ‘Then you’re overdue!’
Kelli was a lot faster than Tammi. She dodged my ﬁrst
strike and rolled into the brass section, knocking over a row
of trombones with a mighty crash. Rachel scrambled out of
the way. I put myself between her and the empousa. Kelli
circled us, her eyes going from me to the sword.
‘Such a pretty little blade,’ she said. ‘What a shame it
stands between us.’
Her form shimmered – sometimes a demon, sometimes a
pretty cheerleader. I tried to keep my mind focused, but it
was really distracting.
‘Poor dear.’ Kelli chuckled. ‘You don’t even know what’s
happening, do you? Soon, your pretty little camp in ﬂames,
818
your friends made slaves to the Lord of Time, and there’s
nothing you can do to stop it. It would be merciful to end
your life now, before you have to see that.’
From down the hall, I heard voices. A tour group was
approaching. A man was saying something about locker
combinations.
The empousa’s eyes lit up. ‘Excellent! We’re about to
have company!’
She picked up a tuba and threw it at me. Rachel and I
ducked. The tuba sailed over our heads and crashed
through the window.
The voices in the hall died down.
‘Percy!’ Kelli shouted, pretending to be scared. ‘Why did
you throw that?’
I was too surprised to answer. Kelli picked up a music
stand and swiped a row of clarinets and ﬂutes. Chairs and
musical instruments crashed to the ﬂoor.
‘Stop it!’ I said.
People were tromping down the hall now, coming in our
direction.
‘Time to greet our visitors!’ Kelli bared her fangs and ran
for the doors. I charged after her with Riptide. I had to stop
her from hurting the mortals.
‘Percy, don’t!’ Rachel shouted. But I hadn’t realized what
Kelli was up to until it was too late.
Kelli ﬂung open the doors. Paul Bloﬁs and a bunch of
freshmen stepped back in shock. I raised my sword.
At the last second, the empousa turned towards me like a
cowering victim. ‘Oh no, please!’ she cried. I couldn’t stop
my blade. It was already in motion.
Just before the celestial bronze hit her, Kelli exploded into
ﬂames like a Molotov cocktail. Waves of ﬁre splashed over
everything. I’d never seen a monster do that before, but I
didn’t have time to wonder about it. I backed into the band
room as ﬂames engulfed the doorway.
819
‘Percy?’ Paul Bloﬁs looked completely stunned, staring at
me from across the ﬁre. ‘What have you done?’
Kids screamed and ran down the hall. The ﬁre alarm
wailed. Ceiling sprinklers hissed into life.
In the chaos, Rachel tugged on my sleeve. ‘You have to
get out of here!’
She was right. The school was in ﬂames and I’d be held
responsible. Mortals couldn’t see through the Mist properly.
To them it would look like I’d just attacked a helpless
cheerleader in front of a group of witnesses. There was no
way I could explain it. I turned from Paul and sprinted for the
broken band-room window.
I burst out of the alley onto East 81st and ran straight into
Annabeth.
‘Hey, you’re out early!’ She laughed, grabbing my
shoulders to keep me from tumbling into the street. ‘Watch
where you’re going, Seaweed Brain.’
For a split second she was in a good mood and everything
was ﬁne. She was wearing jeans and an orange camp T-shirt
and her clay bead necklace. Her blonde hair was pulled back
in a ponytail. Her grey eyes sparkled. She looked like she
was ready to catch a movie, have a cool afternoon hanging
out together.
Then Rachel Elizabeth Dare, still covered in monster dust,
came charging out of the alley, yelling, ‘Percy, wait up!’
Annabeth’s smile melted. She stared at Rachel, then at
the school. For the ﬁrst time, she seemed to notice the black
smoke and the ringing ﬁre alarms.
She frowned at me. ‘What did you do this time? And who
is this?’
‘Oh, Rachel – Annabeth. Annabeth – Rachel. Um, she’s a
friend. I guess.’
I wasn’t sure what else to call Rachel. I mean, I barely
knew her, but after being in two life-or-death situations
together, I couldn’t just call her nobody.
820
‘Hi,’ Rachel said. Then she turned to me. ‘You are in so
much trouble. And you still owe me an explanation!’
Police sirens wailed on FDR Drive.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said coldly, ‘we should go.’
‘I want to know more about half-bloods,’ Rachel insisted.
‘And monsters. And this stuﬀ about the gods.’ She grabbed
my arm, whipped out a permanent marker and wrote a
phone number on my hand. ‘You’re going to call me and
explain, okay? You owe me that. Now get going.’
‘But –’
‘I’ll make up some story,’ Rachel said. ‘I’ll tell them it
wasn’t your fault. Just go!’
She ran back towards the school, leaving Annabeth and
me in the street.
Annabeth stared at me for a second. Then she turned and
took oﬀ.
‘Hey!’ I jogged after her. ‘There were these two
empousai,’ I tried to explain. ‘They were cheerleaders, see,
and they said camp was going to burn, and –’
‘You told a mortal girl about half-bloods?’
‘She can see through the Mist. She saw the monsters
before I did.’
‘So you told her the truth.’
‘She recognized me from Hoover Dam, so –’
‘You’ve met her before?’
‘Um, last winter. But, seriously, I barely know her.’
‘She’s kind of cute.’
‘I – I never thought about it.’
Annabeth kept walking towards York Avenue.
‘I’ll deal with the school,’ I promised, anxious to change
the subject. ‘Honest, it’ll be ﬁne.’
Annabeth wouldn’t even look at me. ‘I guess our afternoon
is oﬀ. We should get you out of here, now that the police will
be searching for you.’
Behind us, smoke billowed up from Goode High School. In
the dark column of ashes, I thought I could almost see a
821
face – a she-demon with red eyes, laughing at me.
Your pretty little camp in ﬂames, Kelli had said. Your
friends made slaves to the Lord of Time.
‘You’re right,’ I told Annabeth, my heart sinking. ‘We have
to get to Camp Half-Blood. Now.’
822
2    The Underworld Sends Me a Prank Call
 
Nothing caps oﬀ the perfect morning like a long taxi ride
with an angry girl.
I tried to talk to Annabeth, but she was acting like I’d just
punched her grandmother. All I managed to get out of her
was that she’d had a monster-infested spring in San
Francisco, she’d come back to camp twice since Christmas
but wouldn’t tell me why (which kind of ticked me oﬀ,
because she hadn’t even told me she was in New York) and
she’d learned nothing about the whereabouts of Nico di
Angelo (long story).
‘Any word on Luke?’ I asked.
She shook her head. I knew this was a touchy subject for
her. Annabeth had always admired Luke, the former head
counsellor for Hermes who had betrayed us and joined the
evil Titan Lord Kronos. She wouldn’t admit it, but I knew she
still liked him. When we’d fought Luke on Mount Tamalpais
last winter, he’d somehow survived a ﬁfteen-metre fall oﬀ a
cliﬀ. Now, as far as I knew, he was still sailing around on his
demon-infested cruise ship while his chopped-up Lord
Kronos re-formed, bit by bit, in a golden sarcophagus, biding
his time until he had enough power to challenge the
Olympian gods. In demigod-speak, we call this a ‘problem’.
‘Mount Tam is still overrun with monsters,’ Annabeth said.
‘I didn’t dare go close, but I don’t think Luke is up there. I
think I would know if he was.’
That didn’t make me feel much better. ‘What about
Grover?’
‘He’s at camp,’ she said. ‘We’ll see him today.’
823
‘Did he have any luck? I mean, with the search for Pan?’
Annabeth ﬁngered her bead necklace, the way she does
when she’s worried.
‘You’ll see,’ she said. But she didn’t explain.
As we headed through Brooklyn, I used Annabeth’s phone
to call my mom. Half-bloods try not to use cell phones if we
can avoid it, because broadcasting our voices is like sending
up a ﬂare to the monsters: Here I am! Please eat me now!
But I ﬁgured this call was important. I left a message on our
home voice mail, trying to explain what had happened at
Goode. I probably didn’t do a very good job. I told my mom I
was ﬁne, she shouldn’t worry, but I was going to stay at
camp until things cooled down. I asked her to tell Paul Bloﬁs
I was sorry.
We rode in silence after that. The city melted away until
we were oﬀ the expressway and rolling through the
countryside of northern Long Island, past orchards and
wineries and fresh produce stands.
I stared at the phone number Rachel Elizabeth Dare had
scrawled on my hand. I knew it was crazy, but I was
tempted to call her. Maybe she could help me understand
what the empousa had been talking about – the camp
burning, my friends imprisoned. And why had Kelli exploded
into ﬂames?
I knew monsters never truly died. Eventually – maybe
weeks, months or years from now – Kelli would re-form out
of the primordial nastiness seething in the Underworld. But,
still, monsters didn’t usually let themselves get destroyed
so easily. If she really was destroyed.
The taxi exited on Route 25A. We headed through the
woods along the North Shore until a low ridge of hills
appeared on our left. Annabeth told the driver to pull over
on Farm Road 3.141, at the base of Half-Blood Hill.
The driver frowned. ‘There ain’t nothing here, miss. You
sure you want out?’
824
‘Yes, please.’ Annabeth handed him a roll of mortal cash,
and the driver decided not to argue.
Annabeth and I hiked to the crest of the hill. The young
guardian dragon was dozing, coiled around the pine tree,
but he lifted his coppery head as we approached and let
Annabeth scratch under his chin. Steam hissed out of his
nostrils like a kettle and he went cross-eyed with pleasure.
‘Hey, Peleus,’ Annabeth said. ‘Keeping everything safe?’
The last time I’d seen the dragon he’d been two metres
long. Now he was at least twice that, and as thick around as
the tree itself. Above his head, on the lowest branch of the
pine tree, the Golden Fleece shimmered, its magic
protecting the camp’s borders from invasion. The dragon
seemed relaxed, like everything was okay. Below us, Camp
Half-Blood looked peaceful – green ﬁelds, forest, shiny white
Greek buildings. The four-storey farmhouse we called the
Big House sat proudly in the midst of the strawberry ﬁelds.
To the north, past the beach, the Long Island Sound glittered
in the sunlight.
Still… something felt wrong. There was tension in the air,
as if the hill itself were holding its breath, waiting for
something bad to happen.
We walked down into the valley and found the summer
session in full swing. Most of the campers had arrived last
Friday, so I already felt out of it. The satyrs were playing
their pipes in the strawberry ﬁelds, making the plants grow
with 
woodland 
magic. 
Campers 
were 
having 
ﬂying
horseback lessons, swooping over the woods on their
pegasi. Smoke rose from the forges and hammers rang as
kids made their own weapons for arts & crafts. The Athena
and Demeter teams were having a chariot race around the
track, and over at the canoe lake some kids in a Greek
trireme were ﬁghting a large orange sea serpent. A typical
day at camp.
‘I need to talk to Clarisse,’ Annabeth said.
825
I stared at her as if she’d just said I need to eat a large
smelly boot. ‘What for?’
Clarisse from the Ares cabin was one of my least favourite
people. She was a mean, ungrateful bully. Her dad, the war
god, wanted to kill me. She tried to beat me to a pulp on a
regular basis. Other than that, she was just great.
‘We’ve been working on something,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’ll
see you later.’
‘Working on what?’
Annabeth glanced towards the forest.
‘I’ll tell Chiron you’re here,’ she said. ‘He’ll want to talk to
you before the hearing.’
‘What hearing?’
But she jogged down the path towards the archery ﬁeld
without looking back.
‘Yeah,’ I muttered. ‘Great talking with you, too.’
As I made my way through camp, I said hi to some of my
friends. In the Big House’s driveway, Connor and Travis Stoll
from the Hermes cabin were hot-wiring the camp’s van.
Silena Beauregard, the head counsellor for Aphrodite,
waved at me from her pegasus as she ﬂew past. I looked for
Grover, but I didn’t see him. Finally I wandered into the
sword arena, where I usually go when I’m in a bad mood.
Practising always calms me down. Maybe that’s because
swordplay is one thing I actually understand.
I walked into the amphitheatre and my heart almost
stopped. In the middle of the arena ﬂoor, with its back to
me, was the biggest hellhound I’d ever seen.
I mean, I’ve seen some pretty big hellhounds. One the size
of a rhino tried to kill me when I was twelve. But this
hellhound was bigger than a tank. I had no idea how it had
got past the camp’s magic boundaries. It looked right at
home, lying on its belly, growling contentedly as it chewed
the head oﬀ a combat dummy. It hadn’t noticed me yet, but
826
if I made a sound, I knew it would sense me. There was no
time to go for help. I pulled out Riptide and uncapped it.
‘Yaaaaah!’ I charged. I brought down the blade on the
monster’s enormous backside, when out of nowhere another
sword blocked my strike.
CLANG!
The hellhound pricked up its ears. ‘WOOF!’
I jumped back and instinctively struck at the swordsman –
a grey-haired man in Greek armour. He parried my attack
with no problem.
‘Whoa there!’ he said. ‘Truce!’
‘WOOF!’ The hellhound’s bark shook the arena.
‘That’s a hellhound!’ I shouted.
‘She’s harmless,’ the man said. ‘That’s Mrs O’Leary.’
I blinked. ‘Mrs O’Leary?’
At the sound of her name, the hellhound barked again. I
realized she wasn’t angry. She was excited. She nudged the
soggy, 
badly 
chewed 
target 
dummy 
towards 
the
swordsman.
‘Good girl,’ the man said. With his free hand he grabbed
the armoured manikin by the neck and heaved it towards
the stands. ‘Get the Greek! Get the Greek!’
Mrs O’Leary bounded after her prey and pounced on the
dummy, ﬂattening its armour. She began chewing on its
helmet.
The swordsman smiled dryly. He was in his ﬁfties, I guess,
with short grey hair and a clipped grey beard. He was in
good shape for an older guy. He wore black mountain-
climbing trousers and a bronze breastplate strapped over an
orange camp T-shirt. At the base of his neck was a strange
mark, a purplish blotch like a birthmark or a tattoo, but
before I could make out what it was, he shifted his armour
straps and the mark disappeared under his collar.
‘Mrs O’Leary is my pet,’ he explained. ‘I couldn’t let you
stick a sword in her rump, now, could I? That might have
scared her.’
827
‘Who are you?’
‘Promise not to kill me if I put my sword away?’
‘I guess.’
He sheathed his sword and held out his hand. ‘Quintus.’
I shook his hand. It was as rough as sandpaper.
‘Percy Jackson,’ I said. ‘Sorry about – How did you, um –’
‘Get a hellhound for a pet? Long story, involving many
close calls with death and quite a few giant chew toys. I’m
the new sword instructor, by the way. Helping Chiron out
while Mr D is away.’
‘Oh.’ I tried not to stare as Mrs O’Leary ripped oﬀ the
target dummy’s shield with the arm still attached and shook
it like a frisbee. ‘Wait, Mr D is away?’
‘Yes, well… busy times. Even old Dionysus must help out.
He’s gone to visit some old friends. Make sure they’re on the
right side. I probably shouldn’t say more than that.’
If Dionysus was gone, that was the best news I’d had all
day. He was only our camp director because Zeus had sent
him here as a punishment for chasing some oﬀ-limits wood
nymph. He hated the campers and tried to make our lives
miserable. With him away, this summer might actually be
cool. On the other hand, if Dionysus had got oﬀ his butt and
actually started helping the gods recruit against the Titan
threat, things must be looking pretty bad.
Oﬀ to my left, there was a loud BUMP. Six wooden crates
the size of picnic tables were stacked nearby, and they were
rattling. Mrs O’Leary cocked her head and bounded towards
them.
‘Whoa, girl!’ Quintus said. ‘Those aren’t for you.’ He
distracted her with the bronze shield frisbee.
The crates thumped and shook. There were words printed
on the sides, but with my dyslexia they took me a few
minutes to decipher:
 
TRIPLE G RANCH
828
 
FRAGILE
 
THIS WAY UP
 
 
Along the bottom, in smaller letters:
 
OPEN WITH CARE.
 
TRIPLE G RANCH IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPERTY
 
DAMAGE, MAIMING OR EXCRUCIATINGLY PAINFUL DEATHS.
 
 
‘What’s in the boxes?’ I asked.
‘A little surprise,’ Quintus said. ‘Training activity for
tomorrow night. You’ll love it.’
‘Uh, okay,’ I said, though I wasn’t sure about the
‘excruciatingly painful deaths’ part.
Quintus threw the bronze shield, and Mrs O’Leary
lumbered after it. ‘You young ones need more challenges.
They didn’t have camps like this when I was a boy.’
‘You – you’re a half-blood?’ I didn’t mean to sound so
surprised, but I’d never seen an old demigod before.
Quintus chuckled. ‘Some of us do survive into adulthood,
you know. Not all of us are the subject of terrible
prophecies.’
‘You know about my prophecy?’
‘I’ve heard a few things.’
I wanted to ask what few things, but just then Chiron clip-
clopped into the arena. ‘Percy, there you are!’
He must’ve just come from teaching archery. He had a
quiver and bow slung over his ‘NO. 1 CENTAUR’ T-shirt. He’d
829
trimmed his curly brown hair and beard for the summer, and
his lower half, which was a white stallion, was ﬂecked with
mud and grass.
‘I see you’ve met our new instructor.’ Chiron’s tone was
light, but there was an uneasy look in his eyes. ‘Quintus, do
you mind if I borrow Percy?’
‘Not at all, Master Chiron.’
‘No need to call me “master”,’ Chiron said, though he
sounded sort of pleased. ‘Come, Percy. We have much to
discuss.’
I took one more glance at Mrs O’Leary, who was now
chewing oﬀ the target dummy’s legs.
‘Well, see you,’ I told Quintus.
As we were walking away, I whispered to Chiron, ‘Quintus
seems kind of –’
‘Mysterious?’ Chiron suggested. ‘Hard to read?’
‘Yeah.’
Chiron nodded. ‘A very qualiﬁed half-blood. Excellent
swordsman. I just wish I understood…’
Whatever he was going to say, he apparently changed his
mind. ‘First things ﬁrst, Percy. Annabeth told me you met
some empousai.’
‘Yeah.’ I told him about the ﬁght at Goode, and how Kelli
had exploded into ﬂames.
‘Mm,’ Chiron said. ‘The more powerful ones can do that.
She did not die, Percy. She simply escaped. It is not good
that the she-demons are stirring.’
‘What were they doing there?’ I asked. ‘Waiting for me?’
‘Possibly.’ Chiron frowned. ‘It is amazing you survived.
Their powers of deception… almost any male hero would’ve
fallen under their spell and been devoured.’
‘I would’ve been,’ I admitted. ‘Except for Rachel.’
Chiron nodded. ‘Ironic to be saved by a mortal, yet we
owe her a debt. What the empousa said about an attack on
camp – we must speak of this further. But for now, come, we
should get to the woods. Grover will want you there.’
830
‘Where?’
‘At his formal hearing,’ Chiron said grimly. ‘The Council of
Cloven Elders is meeting now to decide his fate.’
Chiron said we needed to hurry, so I let him give me a ride
on his back. As we galloped past the cabins, I glanced at the
dining hall – an open-air Greek pavilion on a hill overlooking
the sea. It was the ﬁrst time I’d seen the place since last
summer, and it brought back bad memories.
Chiron plunged into the woods. Nymphs peeked out of the
trees to watch us pass. Large shapes rustled in the shadows
– monsters that were kept in here as a challenge to the
campers.
I thought I knew the forest pretty well after playing
capture the ﬂag here for two summers, but Chiron took me
a way I didn’t recognize, through a tunnel of old willow
trees, past a little waterfall and into a glade blanketed with
wildﬂowers.
A bunch of satyrs was sitting in a circle on the grass.
Grover stood in the middle, facing three really old, really fat
satyrs who sat on topiary thrones shaped out of rose
bushes. I’d never seen the three old satyrs before, but I
guessed they must be the Council of Cloven Elders.
Grover seemed to be telling them a story. He twisted the
bottom of his T-shirt, shifting nervously on his goat hooves.
He hadn’t changed much since last winter, maybe because
satyrs age half as fast as humans. His acne had ﬂared up.
His horns had got a little bigger, so they just stuck out over
his curly hair. I realized with a start that I was taller than him
now.
Standing oﬀ to one side of the circle were Annabeth,
another girl I’d never seen before, and Clarisse. Chiron
dropped me next to them.
Clarisse’s stringy brown hair was tied back with a
camouﬂage bandanna. If possible, she looked even buﬀer,
like she’d been working out. She glared at me and muttered,
831
‘Punk,’ which must’ve meant she was in a good mood.
Usually she says hello by trying to kill me.
Annabeth had her arm around the other girl, who looked
like she’d been crying. She was small – petite, I guess you’d
call it – with wispy hair the colour of amber and a pretty,
elﬁsh face. She wore a green chiton and laced sandals, and
she was dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief. ‘It’s going
terribly,’ she sniﬄed.
‘No, no.’ Annabeth patted her shoulder. ‘He’ll be ﬁne,
Juniper.’
Annabeth looked at me and mouthed the words Grover’s
girlfriend.
At least I thought that’s what she said, but that made no
sense. Grover with a girlfriend? Then I looked at Juniper
more closely, and I realized her ears were slightly pointed.
Her eyes, instead of being red from crying, were tinged
green, the colour of chlorophyll. She was a tree nymph – a
dryad.
‘Master Underwood!’ the council member on the right
shouted, cutting oﬀ whatever Grover was trying to say. ‘Do
you seriously expect us to believe this?’
‘B-but, Silenus,’ Grover stammered. ‘It’s the truth!’
The council guy, Silenus, turned to his colleagues and
muttered something. Chiron cantered up to the front and
stood next to them. I remembered he was an honorary
member of the council, but I’d never thought about it much.
The elders didn’t look very impressive. They reminded me of
the goats in a petting zoo – huge bellies, sleepy expressions,
and glazed eyes that couldn’t see past the next handful of
goat chow. I wasn’t sure why Grover looked so nervous.
Silenus tugged his yellow polo shirt over his belly and
adjusted 
himself 
on 
his 
rosebush 
throne. 
‘Master
Underwood, for six months – six months – we have been
hearing these scandalous claims that you heard the wild
god Pan speak.’
‘But I did!’
832
‘Impudence!’ said the elder on the left.
‘Now, Maron,’ Chiron said. ‘Patience.’
‘Patience, indeed!’ Maron said. ‘I’ve had it up to my horns
with this nonsense. As if the wild god would speak to… to
him.’
Juniper looked like she wanted to charge the old satyr and
beat him up, but Annabeth and Clarisse held her back.
‘Wrong ﬁght, girlie,’ Clarisse muttered. ‘Wait.’
I don’t know what surprised me more: Clarisse holding
somebody back from a ﬁght, or the fact that she and
Annabeth, who despised each other, almost seemed like
they were working together.
‘For six months,’ Silenus continued, ‘we have indulged
you, Master Underwood. We let you travel. We allowed you
to keep your searcher’s licence. We waited for you to bring
proof of your preposterous claim. And what have you found
in six months of travel?’
‘I just need more time,’ Grover pleaded.
‘Nothing!’ the elder in the middle chimed in. ‘You have
found nothing.’
‘But, Leneus –’
Silenus raised his hand. Chiron leaned in and said
something to the satyrs. The satyrs didn’t look happy. They
muttered and argued among themselves, but Chiron said
something else, and Silenus sighed. He nodded reluctantly.
‘Master Underwood,’ Silenus announced, ‘we will give you
one more chance.’
Grover brightened. ‘Thank you!’
‘One more week.’
‘What? But, sir! That’s impossible!’
‘One more week, Master Underwood. And then, if you
cannot prove your claims, it will be time for you to pursue
another career. Something to suit your dramatic talents.
Puppet theatre, perhaps. Or tap dancing.’
‘But, sir, I – I can’t lose my searcher’s licence. My whole
life –’
833
‘This meeting of the council is adjourned,’ Silenus said.
‘And now let us enjoy our noonday meal!’
The old satyr clapped his hands and a bunch of nymphs
melted out of the trees with platters of vegetables, fruits, tin
cans and other goat delicacies. The circle of satyrs broke
and charged the food. Grover walked dejectedly towards us.
His faded blue T-shirt had a picture of a satyr on it. It read:
Got Hooves?
‘Hi, Percy,’ he said, so depressed he didn’t even oﬀer to
shake my hand. ‘That went well, huh?’
‘Those old goats!’ Juniper said. ‘Oh, Grover, they don’t
know how hard you’ve tried!’
‘There is another option,’ Clarisse said darkly.
‘No. No.’ Juniper shook her head. ‘Grover, I won’t let you.’
His face was ashen. ‘I – I’ll have to think about it. But we
don’t even know where to look.’
‘What are you talking about?’ I asked.
In the distance, a conch horn sounded.
Annabeth pursed her lips. ‘I’ll ﬁll you in later, Percy. We’d
better get back to our cabins. Inspection is starting.’
It didn’t seem fair that I’d have to do cabin inspection when
I just got to camp, but that’s the way it worked. Every
afternoon, one of the senior counsellors came around with a
papyrus-scroll checklist. Best cabin got ﬁrst shower hour,
which meant hot water guaranteed. Worst cabin got kitchen
patrol after dinner.
The problem for me: I was usually the only one in the
Poseidon cabin, and I’m not exactly what you would call
neat. The cleaning harpies only came through on the last
day of summer, so my cabin was probably just the way I’d
left it on winter break: my chocolate wrappers and crisp
bags still on my bunk, my armour for capture the ﬂag lying
in pieces all around the cabin.
I raced towards the commons area, where the twelve
cabins – one for each Olympian god – made a U around the
834
central green. The Demeter kids were sweeping out theirs
and making fresh ﬂowers grow in their window boxes. Just
by snapping their ﬁngers they could make honeysuckle
vines bloom over their doorway and daisies cover their roof,
which was totally unfair. I don’t think they ever got last
place in inspection. The guys in the Hermes cabin were
scrambling around in a panic, stashing dirty laundry under
their beds and accusing each other of taking stuﬀ. They
were slobs, but they still had a head start on me.
Over at the Aphrodite cabin, Silena Beauregard was just
coming out, checking items oﬀ the inspection scroll. I cursed
under my breath. Silena was nice, but she was an absolute
neat freak, the worst inspector. She liked things to be pretty.
I didn’t do ‘pretty’. I could almost feel my arms getting
heavy from all the dishes I would have to scrub tonight.
The Poseidon cabin was at the end of the row of ‘male
god’ cabins on the right side of the green. It was made of
grey shell-encrusted sea rock, long and low like a bunker,
but it had windows that faced the sea and it always had a
good breeze blowing through it.
I dashed inside, wondering if maybe I could do a quick
under-the-bed cleaning job like the Hermes guys, and I
found my half-brother Tyson sweeping the ﬂoor.
‘Percy!’ he bellowed. He dropped his broom and ran at
me. If you’ve never been charged by an enthusiastic
Cyclops wearing a ﬂowered apron and rubber cleaning
gloves, I’m telling you, it’ll wake you up quick.
‘Hey, big guy!’ I said. ‘Ow, watch the ribs. The ribs.’
I managed to survive his bear hug. He put me down,
grinning like crazy, his single calf-brown eye full of
excitement. His teeth were as yellow and crooked as ever,
and his hair was a rat’s nest. He wore ragged XXXL jeans
and a tattered ﬂannel shirt under his ﬂowered apron, but he
was still a sight for sore eyes. I hadn’t seen him in almost a
year, since he’d gone under the sea to work at the
Cyclopes’ forges.
835
‘You are okay?’ he asked. ‘Not eaten by monsters?’
‘Not even a little bit.’ I showed him that I still had both
arms and both legs, and Tyson clapped happily.
‘Yay!’ he said. ‘Now we can eat peanut butter sandwiches
and ride ﬁsh ponies! We can ﬁght monsters and see
Annabeth and make things go BOOM!’
I hoped he didn’t mean all at the same time, but I told him
absolutely, we’d have a lot of fun this summer. I couldn’t
help smiling; he was so enthusiastic about everything.
‘But ﬁrst,’ I said, ‘we’ve gotta worry about inspection. We
should…’
Then I looked around and realized Tyson had been busy.
The ﬂoor was swept. The bunk beds were made. The
saltwater fountain in the corner had been freshly scrubbed
so the coral gleamed. On the windowsills, Tyson had set out
water-ﬁlled vases with sea anemones and strange glowing
plants from the bottom of the ocean, more beautiful than
any ﬂower bouquets the Demeter kids could whip up.
‘Tyson, the cabin looks… amazing!’
He beamed. ‘See the ﬁsh ponies? I put them on the
ceiling!’
A herd of miniature bronze hippocampi hung on wires
from the ceiling, so it looked like they were swimming
through the air. I couldn’t believe Tyson, with his huge
hands, could make things so delicate. Then I looked over at
my bunk, and I saw my old shield hanging on the wall.
‘You ﬁxed it!’
The shield had been badly damaged in a manticore attack
last winter, but now it was perfect again – not a scratch. All
the bronze pictures of my adventures with Tyson and
Annabeth in the Sea of Monsters were polished and
gleaming.
I looked at Tyson. I didn’t know how to thank him.
Then somebody behind me said, ‘Oh, my.’
Silena Beauregard was standing in the doorway with her
inspection scroll. She stepped into the cabin, did a quick
836
twirl, then raised her eyebrows at me. ‘Well, I had my
doubts. But you clean up nicely, Percy. I’ll remember that.’
She winked at me and left the room.
Tyson and I spent the afternoon catching up and just
hanging out, which was nice after a morning of getting
attacked by demon cheerleaders.
We went down to the forge and helped Beckendorf from
the Hephaestus cabin with his metalworking. Tyson showed
us how he’d learned to craft magic weapons. He fashioned a
ﬂaming double-bladed war axe so fast even Beckendorf was
impressed.
While he worked, Tyson told us about his year under the
sea. His eye lit up when he described the Cyclopes’ forges
and the palace of Poseidon, but he also told us how tense
things were. The old gods of the sea, who’d ruled during
Titan times, were starting to make war on our father. When
Tyson had left, battles were raging all over the Atlantic.
Hearing that made me feel anxious, like I should be helping
out, but Tyson assured me that Dad wanted us both at
camp.
‘Lots of bad people above the sea, too,’ Tyson said. ‘We
can make them go boom.’
After the forges, we spent some time at the canoe lake
with Annabeth. She was really glad to see Tyson, but I could
tell she was distracted. She kept looking over at the forest,
like she was thinking about Grover’s problem with the
council. I couldn’t blame her. Grover was nowhere to be
seen, and I felt really bad for him. Finding the lost god Pan
had been his lifelong goal. His father and his uncle had both
disappeared, following the same dream. Last winter, Grover
had heard a voice in his head: I await you – a voice he was
sure belonged to Pan – but apparently his search had led
nowhere. If the council took away his searcher’s licence
now, it would crush him.
837
‘What’s this “other way”?’ I asked Annabeth. ‘The thing
Clarisse mentioned?’
She picked up a stone and skipped it across the lake.
‘Something Clarisse scouted out. I helped her a little this
spring. But it would be dangerous. Especially for Grover.’
‘Goat boy scares me,’ Tyson murmured.
I stared at him. Tyson had faced down ﬁre-breathing bulls
and sea monsters and cannibal giants. ‘Why would you be
scared of Grover?’
‘Hooves and horns,’ Tyson muttered nervously. ‘And goat
fur makes my nose itchy.’
And that pretty much ended our Grover conversation.
Before dinner, Tyson and I went down to the sword arena.
Quintus was glad to have company. He still wouldn’t tell me
what was in the wooden crates, but he did teach me a few
sword moves. The guy was good. He fought the way some
people play chess – like he was putting all the moves
together and you couldn’t see the pattern until he made the
last stroke and won with a sword at your throat.
‘Good try,’ he told me. ‘But your guard is too low.’
He lunged and I blocked.
‘Have you always been a swordsman?’ I asked.
He parried my overhead cut. ‘I’ve been many things.’
He jabbed and I sidestepped. His shoulder strap slipped
down, and I saw that mark on his shoulder – the purple
blotch. But it wasn’t a random mark. It had a deﬁnite shape
– a bird with folded wings, like a quail or something.
‘What’s that on your neck?’ I asked, which was probably a
rude question, but you can blame my ADHD. I tend to just
blurt things out.
Quintus lost his rhythm. I hit his sword hilt and knocked
the blade out of his hand.
He rubbed his ﬁngers. Then he shifted his armour to hide
the mark. It wasn’t a tattoo, I realized. It was an old burn…
like he’d been branded.
838
‘A reminder.’ He picked up his sword and forced a smile.
‘Now, shall we go again?’
He pressed me hard, not giving me time for any more
questions.
While he and I fought, Tyson played with Mrs O’Leary,
whom he called the ‘little doggie’. They had a great time
wrestling for the bronze shield and playing Get the Greek.
By sunset, Quintus hadn’t even broken a sweat, which
seemed kind of strange, but Tyson and I were hot and sticky,
so we hit the showers and got ready for dinner.
I was feeling good. It was almost like a normal day at
camp. Then dinner came, and all the campers lined up by
their cabins and marched into the dining pavilion. Most of
them ignored the sealed ﬁssure in the marble ﬂoor at the
entrance – a three-metre-long jagged scar that hadn’t been
there last summer – but I was careful to step over it.
‘Big crack,’ Tyson said when we were at our table.
‘Earthquake, maybe?’
‘No,’ I said. ‘Not an earthquake.’
I wasn’t sure I should tell him. It was a secret only
Annabeth and Grover and I knew. But looking in Tyson’s big
eye, I knew I couldn’t hide anything from him.
‘Nico di Angelo,’ I said, lowering my voice. ‘He’s this half-
blood kid we brought to camp last winter. He, uh… he asked
me to guard his sister on a quest, and I failed. She died.
Now he blames me.’
Tyson frowned. ‘So he put a crack in the ﬂoor?’
‘These skeletons attacked us,’ I said. ‘Nico told them to go
away, and the ground just opened up and swallowed them.
Nico…’ I looked around to make sure no one was listening.
‘Nico is a son of Hades.’
Tyson nodded thoughtfully. ‘The god of dead people.’
‘Yeah.’
‘So the Nico boy is gone now?’
‘I – I guess. I tried to search for him this spring. So did
Annabeth. But we didn’t have any luck. This is secret, Tyson.
839
Okay? If anyone found out he is a son of Hades, he would be
in danger. You can’t even tell Chiron.’
‘The bad prophecy,’ Tyson said. ‘Titans might use him if
they knew.’
I stared at him. Sometimes it was easy to forget that, as
big and childlike as he was, Tyson was pretty smart. He
knew that the next child of the Big Three gods – Zeus,
Poseidon or Hades – who turned sixteen was prophesied to
either save or destroy Mount Olympus. Most people
assumed that meant me, but if I died before I turned
sixteen, the prophecy could just as easily apply to Nico.
‘Exactly,’ I said. ‘So –’
‘Mouth sealed,’ Tyson promised. ‘Like the crack in the
ground.’
∗  ∗  ∗
 
I had trouble falling asleep that night. I lay in bed listening
to the waves on the beach, and the owls and monsters in
the woods. I was afraid once I drifted oﬀ I’d have
nightmares.
See, for half-bloods, dreams are hardly ever just dreams.
We get messages. We see things that are happening to our
friends or enemies. Sometimes we even glimpse the past or
the future. And at camp, my dreams were always more
frequent and vivid.
So I was still awake around midnight, staring at the bunk-
bed mattress above me, when I realized there was a strange
light in the room. The saltwater fountain was glowing.
I threw oﬀ the covers and walked cautiously towards it.
Steam rose from the hot salt water. Rainbow colours
shimmered through it, though there was no light in the room
except for the moon outside. Then a pleasant female voice
spoke from the steam: Please deposit one drachma.
I looked over at Tyson, but he was still snoring. He sleeps
about as heavily as a tranquillized elephant.
840
I didn’t know what to think. I’d never had a collect Iris-
message before. One golden drachma gleamed at the
bottom of the fountain. I scooped it up and tossed it through
the Mist. The coin vanished.
‘O, Iris, Goddess of the Rainbow,’ I whispered. ‘Show me…
uh, whatever you need to show me.’
The Mist shimmered. I saw the dark shore of a river. Wisps
of fog drifted across black water. The beach was strewn with
jagged volcanic rock. A young boy squatted at the
riverbank, tending a campﬁre. The ﬂames burned an
unnatural blue colour. Then I saw the boy’s face. It was Nico
di Angelo. He was throwing pieces of paper into the ﬁre –
Mythomagic trading cards, part of the game he’d been
obsessed with last winter.
Nico was only ten, or maybe eleven by now, but he looked
older. His hair had grown longer. It was shaggy and almost
touched his shoulders. His eyes were dark. His olive skin
had turned paler. He wore ripped black jeans and a battered
aviator’s jacket that was several sizes too big, unzipped
over a black shirt. His face was grimy, his eyes a little wild.
He looked like a kid who’d been living on the streets.
I waited for him to look at me. No doubt he’d get crazy
angry, start accusing me of letting his sister die. But he
didn’t seem to notice me.
I stayed quiet, not daring to move. If he hadn’t sent this
Iris-message, who had?
Nico tossed another trading card into the blue ﬂames.
‘Useless,’ he muttered. ‘I can’t believe I ever liked this stuﬀ.’
‘A childish game, master,’ another voice agreed. It
seemed to come from near the ﬁre, but I couldn’t see who
was talking.
Nico stared across the river. On the far shore was a black
beach shrouded in haze. I recognized it: the Underworld.
Nico was camping at the edge of the River Styx.
‘I’ve failed,’ he muttered. ‘There’s no way to get her
back.’
841
The other voice kept silent.
Nico turned towards it doubtfully. ‘Is there? Speak.’
Something shimmered. I thought it was just ﬁrelight. Then
I realized it was the form of a man – a wisp of blue smoke, a
shadow. If you looked at him head-on, he wasn’t there. But if
you looked out of the corner of your eye, you could make
out his shape. A ghost.
‘It has never been done,’ the ghost said. ‘But there may
be a way.’
‘Tell me,’ Nico commanded. His eyes shone with a ﬁerce
light.
‘An exchange,’ the ghost said. ‘A soul for a soul.’
‘I’ve oﬀered!’
‘Not yours,’ the ghost said. ‘You cannot oﬀer your father a
soul he will eventually collect anyway. Nor will he be anxious
for the death of his son. I mean a soul that should have died
already. Someone who has cheated death.’
Nico’s face darkened. ‘Not that again. You’re talking about
murder.’
‘I’m talking about justice,’ the ghost said. ‘Vengeance.’
‘Those are not the same thing.’
The ghost laughed dryly. ‘You will learn diﬀerently as you
get older.’
Nico stared at the ﬂames. ‘Why can’t I at least summon
her? I want to talk to her. She would… she would help me.’
‘I will help you,’ the ghost promised. ‘Have I not saved you
many times? Did I not lead you through the maze and teach
you to use your powers? Do you want revenge for your
sister or not?’
I didn’t like the ghost’s tone of voice. He reminded me of a
kid at my old school, a bully who used to convince other
kids to do stupid things like steal lab equipment and
vandalize the teachers’ cars. The bully never got into
trouble himself, but he got tons of other kids suspended.
Nico turned from the ﬁre so the ghost couldn’t see him,
but I could. A tear traced its way down his face. ‘Very well.
842
You have a plan?’
‘Oh, yes,’ the ghost said, sounding quite pleased. ‘We
have many dark roads to travel. We must start –’
The image shimmered. Nico vanished. The woman’s voice
from the Mist said, Please deposit one drachma for another
ﬁve minutes.
There were no other coins in the fountain. I grabbed for
my pockets, but I was wearing pyjamas. I lunged for the
nightstand to check for spare change, but the Iris-message
had already blinked out, and the room went dark again. The
connection was broken.
I stood in the middle of the cabin, listening to the gurgle
of the saltwater fountain and the ocean waves outside.
Nico was alive. He was trying to bring his sister back from
the dead. And I had a feeling I knew whose soul he wanted
to exchange – someone who had cheated death. Vengeance.
Nico di Angelo would come looking for me.
843
3    We Play Tag With Scorpions
 
The next morning there was a lot of excitement at breakfast.
Apparently around three in the morning an Aethiopian
drakon had been spotted at the borders of camp. I was so
exhausted I slept right through the noise. The magical
boundaries had kept the monster out, but it prowled the
hills, looking for weak spots in our defences, and it didn’t
seem anxious to go away until Lee Fletcher from Apollo’s
cabin led a couple of his siblings in pursuit. After a few
dozen arrows lodged in the chinks of the drakon’s armour, it
got the message and withdrew.
‘It’s still out there,’ Lee warned us during announcements.
‘Twenty arrows in its hide, and we just made it mad. The
thing was ten metres long and bright green. Its eyes –’ He
shuddered.
‘You did well, Lee.’ Chiron patted him on the shoulder.
‘Everyone stay alert, but stay calm. This has happened
before.’
‘Aye,’ Quintus said from the head table. ‘And it will
happen again. More and more frequently.’
The campers murmured among themselves.
Everyone knew the rumours: Luke and his army of
monsters were planning an invasion of the camp. Most of us
expected it to happen this summer, but no one knew how or
when. It didn’t help that our attendance was down. We only
had about eighty campers. Three years ago, when I’d
started, there had been more than a hundred. Some had
died. Some had joined Luke. Some had just disappeared.
844
‘This is a good reason for new war games,’ Quintus
continued, a glint in his eyes. ‘We’ll see how you all do with
that tonight.’
‘Yes …’ Chiron said. ‘Well, enough announcements. Let us
bless this meal and eat.’ He raised his goblet. ‘To the gods!’
We all raised our glasses and repeated the blessing.
Tyson and I took our plates to the bronze brazier and
scraped a portion of our food into the ﬂames. I hoped the
gods liked raisin toast and Cheerios.
‘Poseidon,’ I said. Then I whispered, ‘Help me with Nico,
and Luke, and Grover’s problem …’
There was so much to worry about I could’ve stood there
all morning, but I headed back to my table.
Once everyone was eating, Chiron and Grover came over
to visit. Grover was bleary-eyed. His shirt was inside out. He
slid his plate onto the table and slumped next to me.
Tyson shifted uncomfortably. ‘I will go … um … polish my
ﬁsh ponies.’
He lumbered oﬀ, leaving his breakfast half eaten.
Chiron tried for a smile. He probably wanted to look
reassuring, but in centaur form he towered over me, casting
a shadow across the table. ‘Well, Percy, how did you sleep?’
‘Uh, ﬁne.’ I wondered why he asked that. Was it possible
he knew something about the weird Iris-message I’d got?
‘I brought Grover over,’ Chiron said, ‘because I thought
you two might want to, ah, discuss matters. Now, if you’ll
excuse me, I have some Iris-messages to send. I’ll see you
later in the day.’ He gave Grover a meaningful look, then
trotted out of the pavilion.
‘What’s he talking about?’ I asked Grover.
Grover chewed his eggs. I could tell he was distracted,
because he bit oﬀ the tines of his fork and chewed those
down, too. ‘He wants you to convince me,’ he mumbled.
Somebody else slid next to me on the bencn: Annabeth.
‘I’ll tell you what it’s about,’ she said. ‘The Labyrinth.’
845
It was hard to concentrate on what she was saying,
because everybody in the dining pavilion was stealing
glances at us and whispering. And Annabeth was right next
to me. I mean right next to me.
‘You’re not supposed to be here,’ I said.
‘We need to talk,’ she insisted.
‘But the rules …’
She knew as well as I did that campers weren’t allowed to
switch tables. Satyrs were diﬀerent. They weren’t really
demigods. But the half-bloods had to sit with their cabins. I
wasn’t even sure what the punishment was for switching
tables. I’d never seen it happen. If Mr D had been here, he
probably 
would’ve 
strangled 
Annabeth 
with 
magical
grapevines or something, but Mr D wasn’t here. Chiron had
already left the pavilion. Quintus looked over and raised an
eyebrow, but he didn’t say anything.
‘Look,’ Annabeth said. ‘Grover is in trouble. There’s only
one way we can ﬁgure out to help him. It’s the Labyrinth.
That’s what Clarisse and I have been investigating.’
I shifted my weight, trying to think clearly. ‘You mean the
maze where they kept the Minotaur, back in the old days?’
‘Exactly,’ Annabeth said.
‘So … it’s not under the king’s palace in Crete any more,’ I
guessed. ‘The Labyrinth is under some building in America.’
See? It only took me a few years to work things out. I
knew that important places moved around with Western
Civilization, like Mount Olympus being over the Empire State
Building, and the Underworld entrance being in Los Angeles.
I was feeling pretty proud of myself.
Annabeth rolled her eyes. ‘Under a building? Please, Percy.
The Labyrinth is huge. It wouldn’t ﬁt under a single city,
much less a single building.’
I thought about my dream of Nico at the River Styx. ‘So …
is the Labyrinth part of the Underworld?’
‘No.’ Annabeth frowned. ‘Well, there may be passages
from the Labyrinth down into the Underworld. I’m not sure.
846
But the Underworld is way, way down. The Labyrinth is right
under the surface of the mortal world, kind of like a second
skin. It’s been growing for thousands of years, lacing its way
under Western cities, connecting everything together
underground. You can get anywhere through the Labyrinth.’
‘If you don’t get lost,’ Grover muttered. ‘And die a horrible
death.’
‘Grover, there has to be a way,’ Annabeth said. I got the
feeling they’d had this conversation before. ‘Clarisse lived.’
‘Barely!’ Grover said. ‘And the other guy –’
‘He was driven insane. He didn’t die.’
‘Oh, joy.’ Grover’s lower lip quivered. ‘That makes me feel
much better.’
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Back up. What’s this about Clarisse and a
crazy guy?’
Annabeth glanced over towards the Ares table. Clarisse
was watching us like she knew what we were talking about,
but then she ﬁxed her eyes on her breakfast plate.
‘Last year,’ Annabeth said, lowering her voice, ‘Clarisse
went on a mission for Chiron.’
‘I remember,’ I said. ‘It was secret.’
Annabeth nodded. Despite how serious she was acting, I
was happy she wasn’t mad at me any more. And I kind of
liked the fact that she’d broken the rules to come sit next to
me.
‘It was secret,’ Annabeth agreed, ‘because she found
Chris Rodriguez.’
‘The guy from the Hermes cabin?’ I remembered him from
two years ago. We’d eavesdropped on Chris Rodriguez
aboard Luke’s ship, the Princess Andromeda. Chris was one
of the half-bloods who’d abandoned camp and joined the
Titan army.
‘Yeah,’ Annabeth said. ‘Last summer he just appeared in
Phoenix, Arizona, near Clarisse’s mom’s house.’
‘What do you mean, he just appeared?’
847
‘He was wandering around the desert, in ﬁfty degrees, in
full Greek armour, babbling about string.’
‘String,’ I said.
‘He’d been driven completely insane. Clarisse brought him
back to her mom’s house so the mortals wouldn’t
institutionalize him. She tried to nurse him back to health.
Chiron came out and interviewed him, but it wasn’t much
good. The only thing they got out of him: Luke’s men have
been exploring the Labyrinth.’
I shivered, though I wasn’t sure exactly why. Poor Chris …
He hadn’t been that bad a guy. What could’ve driven him
mad? I looked at Grover, who was chewing up the rest of his
fork.
‘Okay,’ I asked. ‘Why were they exploring the Labyrinth?’
‘We weren’t sure,’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s why Clarisse
went on a scouting expedition. Chiron kept things hushed up
because he didn’t want anyone panicking. He got me
involved because … well, the Labyrinth has always been one
of my favourite subjects. The architecture involved –’ Her
expression turned a little dreamy. ‘The builder, Daedalus,
was a genius. But the point is, the Labyrinth has entrances
everywhere. If Luke could ﬁgure out how to navigate it, he
could move his army around with incredible speed.’
‘Except it’s a maze, right?’
‘Full of horrible traps,’ Grover agreed. ‘Dead ends.
Illusions. Psychotic goat-killing monsters.’
‘But not if you had Ariadne’s string,’ Annabeth said. ‘In the
old days, Ariadne’s string guided Theseus out of the maze. It
was a navigation instrument of some kind, invented by
Daedalus. And Chris Rodriguez was mumbling about string.’
‘So Luke is trying to ﬁnd Ariadne’s string,’ I said. ‘Why?
What’s he planning?’
Annabeth shook her head. ‘I don’t know. I thought maybe
he wanted to invade camp through the maze, but that
doesn’t make any sense. The closest entrances Clarisse
found were in Manhattan, which wouldn’t help Luke get past
848
our borders. Clarisse explored a little way into the tunnels,
but … it was very dangerous. She had some close calls. I
researched everything I could ﬁnd out about Daedalus. I’m
afraid it didn’t help much. I don’t understand exactly what
Luke’s planning, but I do know this: the Labyrinth might be
the key to Grover’s problem.’
I blinked. ‘You think Pan is underground?’
‘It would explain why he’s been impossible to ﬁnd.’
Grover shuddered. ‘Satyrs hate going underground. No
searcher would ever try going in that place. No ﬂowers. No
sunshine. No coﬀee shops!’
‘But,’ Annabeth said, ‘the Labyrinth can lead you almost
anywhere. It reads your thoughts. It was designed to fool
you, to trick you and kill you; but if you can make the
Labyrinth work for you –’
‘It could lead you to the wild god,’ I said.
‘I can’t do it.’ Grover hugged his stomach. ‘Just thinking
about it makes me want to throw up my silverware.’
‘Grover, it may be your last chance,’ Annabeth said. ‘The
council is serious. One week or you learn to tap dance!’
Over at the head table, Quintus cleared his throat. I got
the feeling he didn’t want to make a scene, but Annabeth
was really pushing it, sitting at my table so long.
‘We’ll talk later.’ Annabeth squeezed my arm a little too
hard. ‘Convince him, will you?’
She returned to the Athena table, ignoring all the people
who were staring at her.
Grover buried his head in his hands. ‘I can’t do it, Percy.
My searcher’s licence. Pan. I’m going to lose it all. I’ll have
to start a puppet theatre.’
‘Don’t say that! We’ll ﬁgure something out.’
He looked at me, teary-eyed. ‘Percy, you’re my best
friend. You’ve seen me underground. In that Cyclops’s cave.
Do you really think I could …’
His voice faltered. I remembered the Sea of Monsters,
when he’d been stuck in a Cyclops’s cave. He’d never liked
849
underground places to begin with, but now Grover really
hated them. Cyclopes gave him the creeps, too. Even Tyson
… Grover tried to hide it, but Grover and I could sort of read
each other’s emotions because of this empathy link Grover
had made between us. I knew how he felt. Grover was
terriﬁed of the big guy.
‘I have to leave,’ Grover said miserably. ‘Juniper’s waiting
for me. It’s a good thing she ﬁnds cowards attractive.’
After he was gone, I looked over at Quintus. He nodded
gravely, like we were sharing some dark secret. Then he
went back to cutting his sausage with a dagger.
In the afternoon I went down to the pegasus stables to visit
my friend Blackjack.
Yo, boss! He capered around in his stall, his black wings
buﬀeting the air. Ya bring me some sugar cubes?
‘You know those aren’t good for you, Blackjack.’
Yeah, so you brought me some, huh?
I smiled and fed him a handful. Blackjack and I went back
a long way. I sort of helped rescue him from Luke’s demon
cruise ship a few years ago, and ever since he insisted on
repaying me with favours.
So we got any quests coming up? Blackjack asked. I’m
ready to ﬂy, boss!
I patted his nose. ‘Not sure, man. Everybody keeps talking
about underground mazes.’
Blackjack whinnied nervously. Nuh~uh. Not for this horse!
You ain’t gonna be crazy enough to go in no maze, boss. Are
ya? You’ll end up in the glue factory!
‘You may be right, Blackjack. We’ll see.’
Blackjack crunched down his sugar cubes. He shook his
mane like he was having a sugar seizure. Whoa! Good stuﬀ!
Well, boss, you come to your senses and want to ﬂy
somewhere, just give a whistle. Ole Blackjack and his
buddies, we’ll stampede anybody for ya!
850
I told him I’d keep it in mind. Then a group of younger
campers came into the stables to start their riding lessons,
and I decided it was time to leave. I had a bad feeling I
wasn’t going to see Blackjack for a long time.
That night after dinner, Quintus had us suit up in combat
armour like we were getting ready for capture the ﬂag, but
the mood among the campers was a lot more serious.
Sometime during the day, the crates in the arena had
disappeared, and I had a feeling whatever was in them had
been emptied into the woods.
‘Right,’ Quintus said, standing on the head dining table.
‘Gather round.’
He was dressed in black leather and bronze. In the
torchlight, his grey hair made him look like a ghost. Mrs
O’Leary bounded happily around him, foraging for dinner
scraps.
‘You will be in teams of two,’ Quintus announced. When
everybody started talking and trying to grab their friends,
he yelled: ‘Which have already been chosen!’
‘AWWWWW!’ everybody complained.
‘Your goal is simple: collect the gold laurels without dying.
The wreath is wrapped in a silk package, tied to the back of
one of the monsters. There are six monsters. Each has a silk
package. Only one holds the laurels. You must ﬁnd the
wreath before the other teams. And of course … You will
have to slay the monster to get it, and stay alive.’
The crowd started murmuring excitedly. The task sounded
pretty straightforward. Hey, we’d all slain monsters before.
That’s what we trained for.
‘I will now announce your partners,’ Quintus said. ‘There
will be no trading. No switching. No complaining.’
‘Aroooof!’ Mrs O’Leary buried her face in a plate of pizza.
Quintus produced a big scroll and started reading oﬀ
names. Beckendorf would be with Silena Beauregard, which
Beckendorf looked pretty happy about. The Stoll brothers,
851
Travis and Connor, would be together. No surprise. They did
everything together. Clarisse was with Lee Fletcher from the
Apollo cabin – melee and ranged combat combined, they
would be a tough combo to beat. Quintus kept rattling oﬀ
the names until he said, ‘Percy Jackson with Annabeth
Chase.’
‘Nice.’ I grinned at Annabeth.
‘Your armour is crooked,’ was her only comment, and she
redid my straps for me.
‘Grover Underwood,’ Quintus said, ‘with Tyson.’
Grover just about jumped out of his goat fur. ‘What? B-but
–’
‘No, no,’ Tyson whimpered. ‘Must be a mistake. Goat boy
–’
‘No complaining!’ Quintus ordered. ‘Get with your partner.
You have two minutes to prepare!’
Tyson and Grover both looked at me pleadingly. I tried to
give them an encouraging nod, and gestured that they
should move together. Tyson sneezed. Grover started
chewing nervously on his wooden club.
‘They’ll be ﬁne,’ Annabeth said. ‘Come on. Let’s worry
about how we’re going to stay alive.’
It was still light when we got into the woods, but the
shadows from the trees made it feel like midnight. It was
cold, too, even in summer. Annabeth and I found tracks
almost immediately – scuttling marks made by something
with a lot of legs. We began to follow the trail.
We jumped a creek and heard some twigs snapping
nearby. We crouched behind a boulder, but it was only the
Stoll brothers tripping through the woods and cursing. Their
dad was the god of thieves, but they were about as stealthy
as water buﬀaloes.
Once the Stolls had passed, we forged deeper into the
west woods, where the monsters were wilder. We were
852
standing on a ledge overlooking a marshy pond when
Annabeth tensed. ‘This is where we stopped looking.’
It took me a second to realize what she meant. Last
winter, when we’d been searching for Nico di Angelo, this
was where we’d given up hope of ﬁnding him. Grover,
Annabeth and I had stood on this rock, and I’d convinced
them not to tell Chiron the truth: that Nico was a son of
Hades. At the time it seemed the right thing to do. I wanted
to protect his identity. I wanted to be the one to ﬁnd him
and make things right for what had happened to his sister.
Now, six months later, I hadn’t even come close to ﬁnding
him. It left a bitter taste in my mouth.
‘I saw him last night,’ I said.
Annabeth knitted her eyebrows. ‘What do you mean?’
I told her about the Iris-message. When I was done, she
stared into the shadows of the woods. ‘He’s summoning the
dead? That’s not good.’
‘The ghost was giving him bad advice,’ I said. ‘Telling him
to take revenge.’
‘Yeah … spirits are never good advisers. They’ve got their
own agendas. Old grudges. And they resent the living.’
‘He’s going to come after me,’ I said. ‘The spirit
mentioned a maze.’
She nodded. ‘That settles it. We have to ﬁgure out the
Labyrinth.’
‘Maybe,’ I said uncomfortably. ‘But who sent the Iris-
message? If Nico didn’t know I was there –’
A branch snapped in the woods. Dry leaves rustled.
Something large was moving in the trees, just beyond the
ridge.
‘That’s not the Stoll brothers,’ Annabeth whispered.
Together we drew our swords.
We got to Zeus’s Fist, a huge pile of boulders in the middle
of the west woods. It was a natural landmark where
853
campers often rendezvoused on hunting expeditions, but
now there was nobody around.
‘Over there,’ Annabeth whispered.
‘No, wait,’ I said. ‘Behind us.’
It was weird. Scuttling noises seemed to be coming from
several diﬀerent directions. We were circling the boulders,
our swords drawn, when someone right behind us said, ‘Hi.’
We whirled around, and the tree nymph Juniper yelped.
‘Put those down!’ she protested. ‘Dryads don’t like sharp
blades, okay?’
‘Juniper,’ Annabeth exhaled. ‘What are you doing here?’
‘I live here.’
I lowered my sword. ‘In the boulders?’
She pointed towards the edge of the clearing. ‘In the
juniper. Duh.’
It made sense, and I felt kind of stupid. I’d been hanging
around dryads for years, but I never really talked to them
much. I knew they couldn’t go very far from their tree,
which was their source of life. But I didn’t know much else.
‘Are you guys busy?’ Juniper asked.
‘Well,’ I said, ‘we’re in the middle of this game against a
bunch of monsters and we’re trying not to die.’
‘We’re not busy,’ Annabeth said. ‘What’s wrong, Juniper?’
Juniper sniﬄed. She wiped her silky sleeve under her
eyes. ‘It’s Grover. He seems so distraught. All year he’s
been out looking for Pan. And every time he comes back, it’s
worse. I thought maybe, at ﬁrst, he was seeing another
tree.’
‘No,’ Annabeth said, as Juniper started crying. ‘I’m sure
that’s not it.’
‘He had a crush on a blueberry bush once,’ Juniper said
miserably.
‘Juniper,’ Annabeth said, ‘Grover would never even look at
another tree. He’s just stressed out about his searcher’s
licence.’
854
‘He can’t go underground!’ she protested. ‘You can’t let
him.’
Annabeth looked uncomfortable. ‘It might be the only way
to help him; if we just knew where to start.’
Ah.’ Juniper wiped a green tear oﬀ her cheek. ‘About that
…’
Another rustle in the woods, and Juniper yelled, ‘Hide!’
Before I could ask why, she went poof into green mist.
Annabeth and I turned. Coming out of the woods was a
glistening amber insect, three metres long, with jagged
pincers, an armoured tail and a sting as long as my sword. A
scorpion. Tied to its back was a red silk package.
‘One of us gets behind it,’ Annabeth said, as the thing
clattered towards us. ‘Cut oﬀ its tail while the other distracts
it in front.’
‘I’ll take point,’ I said. ‘You’ve got the invisibility hat.’
She nodded. We’d fought together so many times we
knew each other’s moves. We could do this, easy. But it all
went wrong when the other two scorpions appeared from
the woods.
‘Three?’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s not possible! The whole
woods, and half the monsters come at us?’
I swallowed. One, we could take. Two, with a little luck.
Three? Doubtful.
The scorpions scurried towards us, whipping their barbed
tails like they’d come here just to kill us. Annabeth and I put
our backs against the nearest boulder.
‘Climb?’ I said.
‘No time,’ she said.
She was right. The scorpions were already surrounding us.
They were so close I could see their hideous mouths
foaming, anticipating a nice juicy meal of demigods.
‘Look out!’ Annabeth parried away a sting with the ﬂat of
her blade. I stabbed with Riptide, but the scorpion backed
out of range. We clambered sideways along the boulders,
but the scorpions followed us. I slashed at another one, but
855
going on the oﬀensive was too dangerous. If I went for the
body, the tail stabbed downward. If I went for the tail, the
thing’s pincers came from either side and tried to grab me.
All we could do was defend, and we wouldn’t be able to
keep that up for very long.
I took another step sideways, and suddenly there was
nothing behind me. It was a crack between two of the
largest boulders, something I’d probably passed by a million
times, but …
‘In here,’ I said.
Annabeth sliced at a scorpion then looked at me like I was
crazy. ‘In there? It’s too narrow.’
‘I’ll cover you. Go!’
She ducked behind me and started squeezing between
the two boulders. Then she yelped and grabbed my armour
straps, and suddenly I was tumbling into a pit that hadn’t
been there a moment before. I could see the scorpions
above us, the purple evening sky and the trees, and then
the hole shut like the lens of a camera, and we were in
complete darkness.
Our breathing echoed against stone. It was wet and cold. I
was sitting on a bumpy ﬂoor that seemed to be made of
bricks.
I lifted Riptide. The faint glow of the blade was just
enough to illuminate Annabeth’s frightened face and the
mossy stone walls on either side of us.
‘Wh-where are we?’ Annabeth said.
‘Safe from scorpions, anyway.’ I tried to sound calm, but I
was freaking out. The crack between the boulders couldn’t
have led into a cave. I would’ve known if there was a cave
here; I was sure of it. It was like the ground had opened up
and swallowed us. All I could think of was the ﬁssure in the
dining room pavilion, where those skeletons had been
consumed last summer. I wondered if the same thing had
happened to us.
I lifted my sword again for light.
856
‘It’s a long room,’ I muttered.
Annabeth gripped my arm. ‘It’s not a room. It’s a corridor.’
She was right. The darkness felt … emptier in front of us.
There was a warm breeze, like in subway tunnels, only it felt
older, more dangerous somehow.
I started forward, but Annabeth stopped me. ‘Don’t take
another step,’ she warned. ‘We need to ﬁnd the exit.’
She sounded really scared now.
‘It’s okay,’ I promised. ‘It’s right –’
I looked up and realized I couldn’t see where we’d fallen
in. The ceiling was solid stone. The corridor seemed to
stretch endlessly in both directions.
Annabeth’s hand slipped into mine. Under diﬀerent
circumstances I would’ve been embarrassed, but here in the
dark I was glad to know where she was. It was about the
only thing I was sure of.
‘Two steps back,’ she advised.
We stepped backwards together like we were in a
mineﬁeld.
‘Okay,’ she said. ‘Help me examine the walls.’
‘What for?’
‘The mark of Daedalus,’ she said, as if that were supposed
to make sense.
‘Uh, okay. What kind of –’
‘Got it!’ she said with relief. She set her hand on the wall
and pressed against a tiny ﬁssure, which began to glow
blue. A Greek symbol appeared: Δ, the Ancient Greek Delta.
The roof slid open and we saw night sky, stars blazing. It
was a lot darker than it should’ve been. Metal ladder rungs
appeared in the side of the wall, leading up, and I could hear
people yelling our names.
‘Percy! Annabeth!’ Tyson’s voice bellowed the loudest, but
others were calling out, too.
I looked nervously at Annabeth. Then we began to climb.
857
We made our way around the rocks and ran into Clarisse
and a bunch of other campers carrying torches.
‘Where have you two been?’ Clarisse demanded. ‘We’ve
been looking forever.’
‘But we were only gone a few minutes,’ I said.
Chiron trotted up, followed by Tyson and Grover.
‘Percy!’ Tyson said. ‘You are okay?’
‘We’re ﬁne,’ I said. ‘We fell in a hole.’
The others looked at me sceptically, then at Annabeth.
‘Honest!’ I said. ‘There were three scorpions after us, so
we ran and hid in the rocks. But we were only gone a
minute.’
‘You’ve been missing for almost an hour,’ Chiron said. ‘The
game is over.’
‘Yeah,’ Grover muttered. ‘We would’ve won, but a Cyclops
sat on me.’
‘Was an accident!’ Tyson protested, and then he sneezed.
Clarisse was wearing the gold laurels, but she didn’t even
brag about winning them, which wasn’t like her. ‘A hole?’
she said suspiciously.
Annabeth took a deep breath. She looked around at the
other campers. ‘Chiron … maybe we should talk about this
at the Big House.’
Clarisse gasped. ‘You found it, didn’t you?’
Annabeth bit her lip. ‘I – Yeah. Yeah, we did.’
A bunch of campers started asking questions, looking
about as confused as I was, but Chiron raised his hand for
silence. ‘Tonight is not the right time, and this is not the
right place.’ He stared at the boulders as if he’d just noticed
how dangerous they were. ‘All of you, back to your cabins.
Get some sleep. A game well played, but curfew is past!’
There was a lot of mumbling and complaints, but the
campers drifted oﬀ, talking amongst themselves and giving
me suspicious looks.
‘This explains a lot,’ Clarisse said. ‘It explains what Luke is
after.’
858
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘What do you mean? What did we
ﬁnd?’
Annabeth turned towards me, her eyes dark with worry.
‘An entrance to the Labyrinth. An invasion route straight
into the heart of the camp.’
859
4    Annabeth Breaks The Rules
 
Chiron had insisted we talk about it in the morning, which
was kind of like, Hey, your life’s in mortal danger. Sleep
tight! It was hard to fall asleep, but when I ﬁnally did, I
dreamed of a prison.
I saw a boy in a Greek tunic and sandals crouching alone
in a massive stone room. The ceiling was open to the night
sky, but the walls were seven metres high and polished
marble, completely smooth. Scattered around the room
were wooden crates. Some were cracked and tipped over,
as if they’d been ﬂung in there. Bronze tools spilled out of
one –a compass, a saw and a bunch of other things I didn’t
recognize.
The boy huddled in the corner, shivering from cold, or
maybe fear. He was spattered in mud. His legs, arms and
face were scraped up as if he’d been dragged here along
with the boxes.
Then the double oak doors moaned open. Two guards in
bronze armour marched in, holding an old man between
them. They ﬂung him to the ﬂoor in a battered heap.
‘Father!’ The boy ran to him. The man’s robes were in
tatters. His hair was streaked with grey, and his beard was
long and curly. His nose had been broken. His lips were
bloody.
The boy took the old man’s head in his arms. ‘What did
they do to you?’ Then he yelled at the guards, ‘I’ll kill you!’
‘There will be no killing today,’ a voice said.
The guards moved aside. Behind them stood a tall man in
white robes. He wore a thin circlet of gold on his head. His
860
beard was pointed like a spear blade. His eyes glittered
cruelly. ‘You helped the Athenian kill my Minotaur, Daedalus.
You turned my own daughter against me.’
‘You did that yourself, Your Majesty,’ the old man croaked.
A guard planted a kick in the old man’s ribs. He groaned in
agony. The young boy cried, ‘Stop it!’
‘You love your maze so much,’ the king said, ‘I have
decided to let you stay here. This will be your workshop.
Make me new wonders. Amuse me. Every maze needs a
monster. You shall be mine!’
‘I don’t fear you,’ the old man groaned.
The king smiled coldly. He locked his eyes on the boy. ‘But
a man cares about his son, eh? Displease me, old man, and
the next time my guards inﬂict a punishment, it will be on
him!’
The king swept out of the room with his guards, and the
doors slammed shut, leaving the boy and his father alone in
the darkness.
‘What will we do?’ the boy moaned. ‘Father, they will kill
you!’
The old man swallowed with diﬃculty. He tried to smile,
but it was a gruesome sight with his bloody mouth.
‘Take heart, my son.’ He gazed up at the stars. ‘I – I will
ﬁnd a way.’
A bar lowered across the doors with a fatal BOOM, and I
woke in a cold sweat.
I was still feeling shaky the next morning when Chiron called
a war council. We met in the sword arena, which I thought
was pretty strange – trying to discuss the fate of the camp
while Mrs O’Leary chewed on a life–size squeaky pink rubber
yak.
Chiron and Quintus stood at the front by the weapon
racks. Clarisse and Annabeth sat next to each other and led
the brieﬁng. Tyson and Grover sat as far away from each
other as possible. Also present around the table: Juniper the
861
tree nymph, Silena Beauregard, Travis and Connor Stoll,
Beckendorf, Lee Fletcher, even Argus, our hundred-eyed
security chief. That’s how I knew it was serious. Argus hardly
ever shows up unless something really major is going on.
The whole time Annabeth spoke, he kept his hundred blue
eyes trained on her so hard, his whole body turned
bloodshot.
‘Luke must have known about the Labyrinth entrance,’
Annabeth said. ‘He knew everything about camp.’
I thought I heard a little pride in her voice, like she still
respected the guy, as evil as he was.
Juniper cleared her throat. ‘That’s what I was trying to tell
you last night. The cave entrance has been there a long
time. Luke used to use it.’
Silena Beauregard frowned. ‘You knew about the Labyrinth
entrance, and you didn’t say anything?’
Juniper’s face turned green. ‘I didn’t know it was
important. Just a cave. I don’t like yucky old caves.’
‘She has good taste,’ Grover said.
‘I wouldn’t have paid any attention except… well, it was
Luke.’ She blushed a little greener.
Grover huﬀed. ‘Forget what I said about good taste.’
‘Interesting.’ Quintus polished his sword as he spoke. ‘And
you believe this young man, Luke, would dare use the
Labyrinth as an invasion route?’
‘Deﬁnitely,’ Clarisse said. ‘If he could get an army of
monsters inside Camp Half-Blood, just pop up in the middle
of the woods without having to worry about our magical
boundaries, we wouldn’t stand a chance. He could wipe us
out easy. He must’ve been planning this for months.’
‘He’s been sending scouts into the maze,’ Annabeth said.
‘We know because… because we found one.’
‘Chris Rodriguez,’ Chiron said. He gave Quintus a
meaningful look.
‘Ah,’ Quintus said. ‘The one in the… Yes. I understand.’
‘The one in the what?’ I asked.
862
Clarisse glared at me. ‘The point is, Luke has been looking
for a way to navigate the maze. He’s searching for
Daedalus’s workshop.’
I remembered my dream the night before – the bloody old
man in tattered robes. ‘The guy who created the maze.’
‘Yes,’ Annabeth said. ‘The greatest architect, the greatest
inventor of all time. If the legends are true, his workshop is
in the centre of the Labyrinth. He’s the only one who knew
how to navigate the maze perfectly. If Luke managed to ﬁnd
the workshop and convince Daedalus to help him, Luke
wouldn’t have to fumble around searching for paths, or risk
losing his army in the maze’s traps. He could navigate
anywhere he wanted – quickly and safely. First to Camp Half-
Blood to wipe us out. Then… to Olympus.’
The arena was silent except for Mrs O’Leary’s toy yak
getting disembowelled: SQUEAK! SQUEAK!
Finally Beckendorf put his huge hands on the table. ‘Back
up a sec. Annabeth, you said “convince Daedalus”. Isn’t
Daedalus dead?’
Quintus grunted. ‘I would hope so. He lived, what, three
thousand years ago? And, even if he were alive, don’t the
old stories say he ﬂed from the Labyrinth?’
Chiron clopped restlessly on his hooves. ‘That’s the
problem, my dear Quintus. No one knows. There are
rumours… well, there are many disturbing rumours about
Daedalus, but one is that he disappeared back into the
Labyrinth towards the end of his life. He might still be down
there.’
I thought about the old man I’d seen in my dream. He’d
looked so frail it was hard to believe he’d last another week,
much less three thousand years.
‘We need to go in,’ Annabeth announced. ‘We have to ﬁnd
the workshop before Luke does. If Daedalus is alive, we
convince him to help us, not Luke. If Ariadne’s string still
exists, we make sure it never falls into Luke’s hands.’
863
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘If we’re worried about an attack,
why not just blow up the entrance? Seal the tunnel?’
‘Great idea!’ Grover said. ‘I’ll get the dynamite!’
‘It’s not so easy, stupid,’ Clarisse growled. ‘We tried that
at the entrance we found in Phoenix. It didn’t go well.’
Annabeth nodded. ‘The Labyrinth is magical architecture,
Percy. It would take huge power to seal even one of its
entrances. In Phoenix, Clarisse demolished a whole building
with a wrecking ball, and the maze entrance just shifted a
few metres. The best we can do is prevent Luke from
learning to navigate the Labyrinth.’
‘We could ﬁght,’ Lee Fletcher said. ‘We know where the
entrance is now. We can set up a defensive line and wait for
them. If an army tries to come through, they’ll ﬁnd us
waiting with our bows.’
‘We will certainly set up defences,’ Chiron agreed. ‘But I
fear Clarisse is right. The magical borders have kept this
camp safe for hundreds of years. If Luke manages to get a
large army of monsters into the centre of camp, bypassing
our boundaries… we may not have the strength to defeat
them.’
Nobody looked very happy about that news. Chiron
usually tried to be upbeat and optimistic. If he was
predicting we couldn’t hold oﬀ an attack, that wasn’t good.
‘We have to get to Daedalus’s workshop ﬁrst,’ Annabeth
insisted. ‘Find Ariadne’s string and prevent Luke from using
it.’
‘But if nobody can navigate in there,’ I said, ‘what chance
do we have?’
‘I’ve been studying architecture for years,’ she said. ‘I
know Daedalus’s Labyrinth better than anybody.’
‘From reading about it.’
‘Well, yes.’
‘That’s not enough.’
‘It has to be!’
‘It isn’t!’
864
‘Are you going to help me or not?’
I realized everyone was watching Annabeth and me like a
tennis match. Mrs O’Leary’s squeaky yak went EEK! as she
ripped oﬀ its pink rubber head.
Chiron cleared his throat. ‘First things ﬁrst. We need a
quest. Someone must enter the Labyrinth, ﬁnd the
workshop of Daedalus and prevent Luke from using the
maze to invade this camp.’
‘We all know who should lead this,’ Clarisse said.
‘Annabeth.’
There was a murmur of agreement. I knew Annabeth had
been waiting for her own quest since she was a little kid, but
she looked uncomfortable.
‘You’ve done as much as I have, Clarisse,’ she said. ‘You
should go, too.’
Clarisse shook her head. ‘I’m not going back in there.’
Travis Stoll laughed. ‘Don’t tell me you’re scared. Clarisse,
chicken?’
Clarisse got to her feet. I thought she was going to
pulverize Travis, but she said in a shaky voice: ‘You don’t
understand anything, punk. I’m never going in there again.
Never!’
She stormed out of the arena.
Travis looked around sheepishly. ‘I didn’t mean to –’
Chiron raised his hand. ‘The poor girl has had a diﬃcult
year. Now, do we have agreement that Annabeth should
lead the quest?’
We all nodded except Quintus. He folded his arms and
stared at the table, but I wasn’t sure anyone else noticed.
‘Very well.’ Chiron turned to Annabeth. ‘My dear, it’s your
time to visit the Oracle. Assuming you return to us in one
piece, we shall discuss what to do next.’
Waiting for Annabeth was harder than visiting the Oracle
myself.
865
I’d heard it speak prophecies twice before. The ﬁrst time
had been in the dusty attic of the Big House, where the
spirit of Delphi slept inside the body of a mummiﬁed hippie
lady. The second time, the Oracle had come out for a little
stroll in the woods. I still had nightmares about that.
I’d never felt threatened by the Oracle’s presence, but I’d
heard stories: campers who’d gone insane, or who’d seen
visions so real they died of fear.
I paced the arena, waiting. Mrs O’Leary ate her lunch,
which consisted of ﬁfty kilograms of ground beef and
several dog biscuits the size of trashcan lids. I wondered
where Quintus got dog biscuits that size. I didn’t think you
could just walk into Pet Zone and put those in your shopping
cart.
Chiron was deep in conversation with Quintus and Argus.
It looked to me like they were disagreeing about something.
Quintus kept shaking his head.
On the other side of the arena, Tyson and the Stoll
brothers were racing miniature bronze chariots that Tyson
had made out of armour scraps.
I gave up on pacing and left the arena. I stared across the
ﬁelds at the Big House’s attic window, dark and motionless.
What was taking Annabeth so long? I was pretty sure it
hadn’t taken me this long to get my quest.
‘Percy,’ a girl whispered.
Juniper was standing in the bushes. It was weird how she
almost turned invisible when she was surrounded by plants.
She gestured me over urgently. ‘You need to know: Luke
wasn’t the only one I saw around that cave.’
‘What do you mean?’
She glanced back at the arena. ‘I was trying to say
something, but he was right there.’
‘Who?’
‘The sword master,’ she said. ‘He was poking around the
rocks.’
My stomach clenched. ‘Quintus? When?’
866
‘I don’t know. I don’t pay attention to time. Maybe a week
ago, when he ﬁrst showed up.’
‘What was he doing? Did he go in?’
‘I – I’m not sure. He’s creepy, Percy. I didn’t even see him
come into the glade. Suddenly he was just there. You have
to tell Grover it’s too dangerous –’
‘Juniper?’ Grover called from inside the arena. ‘Where’d
you go?’
Juniper sighed. ‘I’d better go in. Just remember what I
said. Don’t trust that man!’
She ran into the arena.
I stared at the Big House, feeling more uneasy than ever.
If Quintus was up to something… I needed Annabeth’s
advice. She might know what to make of Juniper’s news. But
where the heck was she? Whatever was happening with the
Oracle, it shouldn’t be taking this long.
Finally I couldn’t stand it any more.
It was against the rules, but then again nobody was
watching. I ran down the hill and headed across the ﬁelds.
The front parlour of the Big House was strangely quiet. I was
used to seeing Dionysus by the ﬁreplace, playing cards and
eating grapes and griping at satyrs, but Mr D was still away.
I walked down the hallway, ﬂoorboards creaking under my
feet. When I got to the base of the stairs, I hesitated. Four
ﬂoors above would be a little trapdoor leading to the attic.
Annabeth would be up there somewhere. I stood quietly and
listened. But what I heard wasn’t what I had expected.
Sobbing. And it was coming from below me.
I crept around the back of the stairs. The basement door
was open. I didn’t even know the Big House had a
basement. I peered inside and saw two ﬁgures in the far
corner, sitting amid a bunch of stockpiled cases of ambrosia
and strawberry preserves. One was Clarisse. The other was
a teenage Hispanic guy in tattered camouﬂage combats and
a dirty black T-shirt. His hair was greasy and matted. He was
867
hugging his shoulders and sobbing. It was Chris Rodriguez,
the half-blood who’d gone to work for Luke.
‘It’s okay,’ Clarisse was telling him. ‘Try a little more
nectar.’
‘You’re an illusion, Mary!’ Chris backed further into the
corner. ‘G-get away.’
‘My name’s not Mary.’ Clarisse’s voice was gentle but
really sad. I never knew Clarisse could sound that way. ‘My
name is Clarisse. Remember. Please.’
‘It’s dark!’ Chris yelled. ‘So dark!’
‘Come outside,’ Clarisse coaxed. ‘The sunlight will help
you.’
‘A… a thousand skulls. The earth keeps healing him.’
‘Chris,’ Clarisse pleaded. It sounded like she was close to
tears. ‘You have to get better. Please. Mr D will be back
soon. He’s an expert in madness. Just hang on.’
Chris’s eyes were like a cornered rat’s – wild and
desperate. ‘There’s no way out, Mary. No way out.’
Then he caught a glimpse of me and made a strangled,
terriﬁed sound. ‘The son of Poseidon! He’s horrible!’
I backed away, hoping Clarisse hadn’t seen me. I listened
for her to come charging out and yell at me, but instead she
just kept talking to Chris in a sad pleading voice, trying to
get him to drink the nectar. Maybe she thought it was part
of Chris’s hallucination, but… son of Poseidon? Chris had
been looking at me, and yet why did I get the feeling he
hadn’t been talking about me at all?
And Clarisse’s tenderness – it had never even occurred to
me that she might like someone, but the way she said
Chris’s name… She’d known him before he changed sides.
She’d known him a lot better than I realized. And now he
was shivering in a dark basement, afraid to come out, and
mumbling about someone named Mary. No wonder Clarisse
didn’t want anything to do with the Labyrinth. What had
happened to Chris in there?
868
I heard a creak from above – like the trapdoor opening –
and I ran for the front door. I needed to get out of that
house.
∗  ∗  ∗
 
‘My dear,’ Chiron said. ‘You made it.’
Annabeth walked into the arena. She sat on a stone bench
and stared at the ﬂoor.
‘Well?’ Quintus asked.
Annabeth looked at me ﬁrst. I couldn’t tell if she was
trying to warn me, or if the look in her eyes was just plain
fear. Then she focused on Quintus. ‘I got the prophecy. I will
lead the quest to ﬁnd Daedalus’s workshop.’
Nobody cheered. I mean, we all liked Annabeth, and we
wanted her to have a quest, but this one seemed insanely
dangerous. After what I’d seen of Chris Rodriguez, I didn’t
even want to think about Annabeth descending into that
weird maze again.
Chiron scraped a hoof on the dirt ﬂoor. ‘What did the
prophecy say exactly, my dear? The wording is important.’
Annabeth took a deep breath. ‘I, ah… well, it said, You
shall delve in the darkness of the endless maze…’
We waited.
‘The dead, the traitor and the lost one raise’.
Grover perked up. ‘The lost one! That must mean Pan!
That’s great!’
‘With the dead and the traitor,’ I added. ‘Not so great.’
‘And?’ Chiron asked. ‘What is the rest?’
‘You shall rise or fall by the ghost king’s hand’ Annabeth
said, ‘the child of Athena’s ﬁnal stand!
Everyone looked around uncomfortably. Annabeth was a
daughter of Athena, and a ﬁnal stand didn’t sound good.
‘Hey… we shouldn’t jump to conclusions,’ Silena said.
‘Annabeth isn’t the only child of Athena, right?’
‘But who’s this ghost king?’ Beckendorf asked.
869
No one answered. I thought about the Iris-message I’d
seen of Nico summoning spirits. I had a bad feeling the
prophecy was connected to that.
‘Are there more lines?’ Chiron asked. ‘The prophecy does
not sound complete.’
Annabeth hesitated. ‘I don’t remember exactly.’
Chiron raised an eyebrow. Annabeth was known for her
memory. She never forgot something she had heard.
Annabeth shifted on her bench. ‘Something about…
Destroy with a hero’s ﬁnal breath’
And?’ Chiron asked.
She stood. ‘Look, the point is, I have to go in. I’ll ﬁnd the
workshop and stop Luke. And… I need help.’ She turned to
me. ‘Will you come?’
I didn’t even hesitate. ‘I’m in.’
She smiled for the ﬁrst time in days, and that made it all
worthwhile. ‘Grover, you too? The wild god is waiting.’
Grover seemed to forget how much he hated the
underground. The line about the ‘lost one’ had completely
energized him. ‘I’ll pack extra recyclables for snacks!’
And Tyson,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’ll need you, too.’
‘Yay! Blow-things-up time!’ Tyson clapped so hard he woke
up Mrs O’Leary, who was dozing in the corner.
‘Wait, Annabeth,’ Chiron said. ‘This goes against the
ancient laws. A hero is allowed only two companions.’
‘I need them all,’ she insisted. ‘Chiron, it’s important.’
I didn’t know why she was so certain, but I was happy
she’d included Tyson. I couldn’t imagine leaving him behind.
He was huge and strong and great at ﬁguring out
mechanical things. Unlike satyrs, Cyclopes had no problem
underground.
‘Annabeth.’ Chiron ﬂicked his tail nervously. ‘Consider
well. You would be breaking the ancient laws, and there are
always consequences. Last winter, ﬁve went on a quest to
save Artemis. Only three came back. Think on that. Three is
a sacred number. There are three Fates, three Furies, three
870
Olympian sons of Kronos. It is a good strong number that
stands against many dangers. Four… this is risky.’
Annabeth took a deep breath. ‘I know. But we have to.
Please.’
I could tell Chiron didn’t like it. Quintus was studying us,
like he was trying to decide which of us would come back
alive.
Chiron sighed. ‘Very well. Let us adjourn. The members of
the quest must prepare themselves. Tomorrow at dawn, we
send you into the Labyrinth.’
Quintus pulled me aside as the council was breaking up.
‘I have a bad feeling about this,’ he told me.
Mrs O’Leary came over, wagging her tail happily. She
dropped her shield at my feet, and I threw it for her. Quintus
watched her romp after it. I remembered what Juniper had
said about him scouting out the maze. I didn’t trust him, but
when he looked at me, I saw real concern in his eyes.
‘I don’t like the idea of you going down there,’ he said.
‘Any of you. But if you must, I want you to remember
something. The Labyrinth exists to fool you. It will distract
you. That’s dangerous for half-bloods. We are easily
distracted.’
‘You’ve been in there?’
‘Long ago.’ His voice was ragged. ‘I barely escaped with
my life. Most who enter aren’t that lucky.’
He gripped my shoulder. ‘Percy, keep your mind on what
matters most. If you can do that, you might ﬁnd the way.
And, here, I wanted to give you something.’
He handed me a little silver tube. It was so cold I almost
dropped it.
‘A whistle?’ I asked.
‘A dog whistle,’ Quintus said. ‘For Mrs O’Leary.’
‘Um, thanks, but –’
‘How will it work in the maze? I’m not a hundred percent
certain it will. But Mrs O’Leary is a hellhound. She can
871
appear when called, no matter how far away she is. I’d feel
better knowing you had this. If you really need help, use it,
but be careful: the whistle is made of Stygian ice.’
‘What ice?’
‘From the River Styx. Very hard to craft. Very delicate. It
cannot melt, but it will shatter when you blow it, so you can
only use it once.’
I thought about Luke, my old enemy. Right before I’d gone
on my ﬁrst quest, Luke had given me a gift, too – magic
shoes that had been designed to drag me to my death.
Quintus seemed so nice. So concerned. And Mrs O’Leary
liked him, which had to count for something. She dropped
the slimy shield at my feet and barked excitedly.
I felt ashamed that I could even think about mistrusting
Quintus. But, then again, I’d trusted Luke once.
‘Thanks,’ I told Quintus. I slipped the freezing whistle into
my pocket, promising myself that I would never use it, and I
dashed oﬀ to ﬁnd Annabeth.
As long as I’d been at camp, I’d never been inside the
Athena cabin.
It was a silvery building, nothing fancy, with plain white
curtains and a carved stone owl over the doorway. The owl’s
onyx eyes seemed to follow me as I walked closer.
‘Hello?’ I called inside.
Nobody answered. I stepped in and caught my breath. The
place was a workshop for brainiac kids. The bunks were all
pushed against one wall as if sleeping didn’t matter very
much. Most of the room was ﬁlled with workbenches and
tables and sets of tools and weapons. The back of the room
was a huge library, crammed with old scrolls and leather-
bound books and paperbacks. There was an architect’s
draughting table with a bunch of rulers and protractors, and
some 3-D models of buildings. Huge old war maps were
plastered to the ceiling. Sets of armour hung under the
windows, their bronze plates glinting in the sun.
872
Annabeth stood in the back of the room, riﬂing through
old scrolls.
‘Knock, knock?’ I said.
She turned with a start. ‘Oh… hi. Didn’t hear you.’
‘You okay?’
She frowned at the scroll in her hands. ‘Just trying to do
some research. Daedalus’s Labyrinth is so huge. None of the
stories agree about anything. The maps just lead from
nowhere to nowhere.’
I thought about what Quintus had said, how the maze tries
to distract you. I wondered if Annabeth knew that already.
‘We’ll ﬁgure it out,’ I promised.
Her hair had come loose and was hanging in a tangled
blonde curtain all around her face. Her grey eyes looked
almost black.
‘I’ve wanted to lead a quest since I was seven,’ she said.
‘You’re going to be awesome.’
She looked at me gratefully, but then stared down at all
the books and scrolls she’d pulled from the shelves. ‘I’m
worried, Percy. Maybe I shouldn’t have asked you to do this.
Or Tyson and Grover.’
‘Hey, we’re your friends. We wouldn’t miss it.’
‘But…,’ She stopped herself.
‘What is it?’ I asked. ‘The prophecy?’
‘I’m sure it’s ﬁne,’ she said in a small voice.
‘What was the last line?’
Then she did something that really surprised me. She
blinked back tears and put out her arms.
I stepped forward and hugged her. Butterﬂies started
turning my stomach into a mosh pit.
‘Hey, it’s… it’s okay.’ I patted her back.
I was aware of everything in the room. I felt like I could
read the tiniest print on any book on the shelves.
Annabeth’s hair smelled like lemon soap. She was shivering.
‘Chiron might be right,’ she muttered. ‘I’m breaking the
rules. But I don’t know what else to do. I need you three. It
873
just feels right.’
‘Then don’t worry about it,’ I managed. ‘We’ve had plenty
of problems before, and we solved them.’
‘This is diﬀerent. I don’t want anything happening to… any
of you.’
Behind me, somebody cleared his throat.
It was one of Annabeth’s half-brothers, Malcolm. His face
was bright red. ‘Um, sorry,’ he said. ‘Archery practice is
starting, Annabeth. Chiron said to come ﬁnd you.’
I stepped away from Annabeth. ‘We were just looking at
maps,’ I said stupidly.
Malcolm stared at me. ‘Okay.’
‘Tell Chiron I’ll be right there,’ Annabeth said, and Malcolm
left in a hurry.
Annabeth rubbed her eyes. ‘You go ahead, Percy. I’d better
get ready for archery.’
I nodded, feeling more confused than I ever had in my life.
I wanted to run from the cabin… but then again I didn’t.
‘Annabeth?’ I said. ‘About your prophecy. The line about a
hero’s last breath –’
‘You’re wondering which hero? I don’t know.’
‘No. Something else. I was thinking the last line usually
rhymes with the one before it. Was it something about – did
it end in the word death?’
Annabeth stared down at her scrolls. ‘You’d better go,
Percy. Get ready for the quest. I’ll – I’ll see you in the
morning.’
I left her there, staring at maps that led from nowhere to
nowhere, but I couldn’t shake the feeling that one of us
wasn’t going to come back from this quest alive.
874
5    Nico Buys Happy Meals For The Dead
 
At least I got a good night’s sleep before the quest, right?
Wrong.
That night in my dreams, I was in the stateroom of the
Princess Andromeda. The windows were open on a moonlit
sea. Cold wind rustled the velvet drapes.
Luke knelt on a Persian rug in front of the golden
sarcophagus of Kronos. In the moonlight, Luke’s blond hair
looked pure white. He wore an Ancient Greek chiton and a
white himation, a kind of cape that ﬂowed down his
shoulders. The white clothes made him look timeless and a
little unreal, like one of the minor gods on Mount Olympus.
The last time I’d seen him, he’d been broken and
unconscious after a nasty fall from Mount Tam. Now he
looked perfectly ﬁne. Almost too healthy.
‘Our spies report success, my lord,’ he said. ‘Camp Half-
Blood is sending a quest, as you predicted. Our side of the
bargain is almost complete.’
Excellent. The voice of Kronos didn’t so much speak as
pierce my mind like a dagger. It was freezing with cruelty.
Once we have the means to navigate, I will lead the
vanguard through myself.
Luke closed his eyes as if collecting his thoughts. ‘My lord,
perhaps it is too soon. Perhaps Krios or Hyperion should lead
–’
No. The voice was quiet but absolutely ﬁrm. I will lead.
One more heart shall join our cause, and that will be
suﬃcient. At last, I shall rise fully from Tartarus.
‘But the form, my lord…’ Luke’s voice started shaking.
875
Show me your sword, Luke Castellan.
A jolt went through me. I realized I’d never heard Luke’s
last name before. It had never even occurred to me.
Luke drew his sword. Backbiter’s double edge glowed
wickedly – half steel, half celestial bronze. I’d almost been
killed several times by that sword. It was an evil weapon,
able to kill both mortals and monsters. It was the only blade
I really feared.
You pledged yourself to me, Kronos reminded him. You
took this sword as proof of your oath.
‘Yes, my lord. It’s just –’
You wanted power. I gave you that. You are now beyond
harm. Soon you will rule the world of gods and mortals. Do
you not wish to avenge yourself? To see Olympus
destroyed?
A shiver ran through Luke’s body. ‘Yes.’
The coﬃn glowed, golden light ﬁlling the room. Then
make ready the strike force. As soon as the bargain is done,
we shall move forward. First, Camp Half-Blood will be
reduced to ashes. Once those bothersome heroes are
eliminated, we will march on Olympus.
There was a knock on the stateroom doors. The light of
the coﬃn faded. Luke rose. He sheathed his sword, adjusted
his white clothes, and took a deep breath.
‘Come in.’
The doors opened. Two dracaenae slithered in – snake
women with double serpent trunks instead of legs. Between
them walked Kelli, the empousa cheerleader from my
freshman orientation.
‘Hello, Luke.’ Kelli smiled. She was wearing a red dress
and she looked awesome, but I’d seen her real form. I knew
what she was hiding: mismatched legs, red eyes, fangs and
ﬂaming hair.
‘What is it, demon?’ Luke’s voice was cold. ‘I told you not
to disturb me.’
876
Kelli pouted. ‘That’s not very nice. You look tense. How
about a nice shoulder massage?’
Luke stepped back. ‘If you have something to report, say
it. Otherwise leave!’
‘I don’t know why you’re so huﬀy these days. You used to
be fun to hang out with.’
‘That was before I saw what you did to that boy in
Seattle.’
‘Oh, he meant nothing to me,’ Kelli said. ‘Just a snack,
really. You know my heart belongs to you, Luke.’
‘Thanks, but no thanks. Now report or get out.’
Kelli shrugged. ‘Fine. The advance team is ready, as you
requested. We can leave –’ She frowned.
‘What is it?’ Luke asked.
‘A presence,’ Kelli said. ‘Your senses are getting dull, Luke.
We’re being watched.’
She scanned the stateroom. Her eyes focused right on
me. Her face withered into a hag’s. She bared her fangs and
lunged.
I woke with a start, my heart pounding. I could’ve sworn the
empous’s fangs were an inch from my throat.
Tyson was snoring in the next bunk. The sound calmed me
down a little.
I didn’t know how Kelli could sense me in a dream, but I’d
heard more than I wanted to know. An army was ready.
Kronos would lead it personally. All they needed was a way
to navigate the Labyrinth so they could invade and destroy
Camp Half-Blood, and Luke apparently thought that was
going to happen very soon.
I was tempted to go and wake up Annabeth and tell her,
middle of the night or not. Then I realized the room was
lighter than it should have been. A blue-and-green glow was
coming from the saltwater fountain, brighter and more
urgent than the night before. It was almost like the water
was humming.
877
I got out of bed and approached.
No voice spoke out of the water asking for a deposit this
time. I got the feeling the fountain was waiting for me to
make the ﬁrst move.
I probably should’ve gone back to bed. Instead I thought
about what I’d seen last night – the weird image of Nico at
the banks of the River Styx.
‘You’re trying to tell me something,’ I said.
No response from the fountain.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Show me Nico di Angelo.’
I didn’t even throw a coin in, but this time it didn’t matter.
It was like some other force had control of the water besides
Iris the messenger goddess. The water shimmered. Nico
appeared, but he was no longer in the Underworld. He was
standing in a graveyard under a starry sky. Giant willow
trees loomed all around him.
He was watching some gravediggers at work. I heard
shovels and saw dirt ﬂying out of a hole. Nico was dressed
in a black cloak. The night was foggy. It was warm and
humid and frogs were croaking. A large Wal-Mart bag sat
next to Nico’s feet.
‘Is it deep enough yet?’ Nico asked. He sounded irritated.
‘Nearly, my lord.’ It was the same ghost I’d seen Nico with
before, the faint shimmering image of a man. ‘But, my lord,
I tell you, this is unnecessary. You already have me for
advice.’
‘I want a second opinion!’ Nico snapped his ﬁngers, and
the digging stopped. Two ﬁgures climbed out of the hole.
They weren’t people. They were skeletons in ragged clothes.
‘You are dismissed,’ Nico said. ‘Thank you.’
The skeletons collapsed into piles of bones.
‘You might as well thank the shovels,’ the ghost
complained. ‘They have as much sense.’
Nico ignored him. He reached into his Wal-Mart bag and
pulled out a twelve-pack of Coke. He popped open a can.
Instead of drinking it, he poured it into the grave.
878
‘Let the dead taste again,’ he murmured. ‘Let them rise
and take this oﬀering. Let them remember.’
He dropped the rest of the Cokes into the grave and
pulled out a white paper bag decorated with cartoons. I
hadn’t seen one in years, but I recognized it – a McDonald’s
Happy Meal.
He turned it upside down and shook the fries and
hamburger into the grave.
‘In my day, we used animal blood,’ the ghost mumbled.
‘It’s perfectly good enough. They can’t taste the diﬀerence.’
‘I will treat them with respect,’ Nico said.
‘At least let me keep the toy,’ the ghost said.
‘Be quiet!’ Nico ordered. He emptied another twelve-pack
of soda and three more Happy Meals into the grave, then
began chanting in Ancient Greek. I only caught some of the
words – a lot about the dead and memories and returning
from the grave. Real happy stuﬀ.
The grave started to bubble. Frothy brown liquid rose to
the top like the whole thing was ﬁlling with soda. The fog
thickened. The frogs stopped croaking. Dozens of ﬁgures
began to appear among the gravestones: bluish, vaguely
human shapes. Nico had summoned the dead with Coke and
cheeseburgers.
‘There are too many,’ the ghost said nervously. ‘You don’t
know your own powers.’
‘I’ve got it under control,’ Nico said, though his voice
sounded fragile. He drew his sword – a short blade made of
solid black metal. I’d never seen anything like it. It wasn’t
celestial bronze or steel. Iron, maybe? The crowd of shades
retreated at the sight of it.
‘One at a time,’ Nico commanded.
A single ﬁgure ﬂoated forward and knelt at the pool. It
made slurping sounds as it drank. Its ghostly hands scooped
french fries out of the pool. When it stood again, I could see
it much more clearly – a teenage guy in Greek armour. He
879
had curly hair and green eyes, a clasp shaped like a seashell
on his cloak.
‘Who are you?’ Nico said. ‘Speak.’
The young man frowned as if trying to remember. Then he
spoke in a voice like dry, crumpling paper: ‘I am Theseus.’
No way, I thought. This couldn’t be the Theseus. He was
just a kid. I’d grown up hearing stories about him ﬁghting
the Minotaur and stuﬀ, but I’d always pictured him as this
huge, buﬀ guy. The ghost I was looking at wasn’t strong or
tall. And he wasn’t any older than I was.
‘How can I retrieve my sister?’ Nico asked.
Theseus’s eyes were lifeless as glass. ‘Do not try. It is
madness.’
‘Just tell me!’
‘My stepfather died,’ Theseus remembered. ‘He threw
himself into the sea because he thought I was dead in the
Labyrinth. I wanted to bring him back, but I could not.’
Nico’s ghost hissed, ‘My lord, the soul exchange! Ask him
about that!’
Theseus scowled. ‘That voice. I know that voice.’
‘No you don’t, fool!’ the ghost said. ‘Answer the lord’s
questions and nothing more!’
‘I know you,’ Theseus insisted, as if struggling to recall.
‘I want to hear about my sister,’ Nico said. ‘Will this quest
into the Labyrinth help me win her back?’
Theseus was looking for the ghost, but apparently couldn’t
see him. Slowly he turned his eyes back on Nico. ‘The
Labyrinth is treacherous. There is only one thing that saw
me through: the love of a mortal girl. The string was only
part of the answer. It was the princess who guided me.’
‘We don’t need any of that,’ the ghost said. ‘I will guide
you, my lord. Ask him if it is true about an exchange of
souls. He will tell you.’
‘A soul for a soul,’ Nico asked. ‘Is it true?’
‘I – I must say yes. But the spectre –’
‘Just answer the questions, knave!’ the ghost said.
880
Suddenly, around the edges of the pool, the other ghosts
became restless. They stirred, whispering in nervous tones.
‘I want to see my sister!’ Nico demanded. ‘Where is she?’
‘He is coming,’ Theseus said fearfully. ‘He has sensed your
summons. He comes.’
‘Who?’ Nico demanded.
‘He comes to ﬁnd the source of this power,’ Theseus said.
‘You must release us!’
The water in my fountain began to tremble, humming with
power. I realized the whole cabin was shaking. The noise
grew louder. The image of Nico in the graveyard started to
glow until it was painful to watch.
‘Stop,’ I said out loud. ‘Stop it!’
The fountain began to crack. Tyson muttered in his sleep
and turned over. Purple light threw horrible, ghostly
shadows on the cabin walls, as if the spectres were escaping
right out of the fountain.
In desperation I uncapped Riptide and slashed at the
fountain, cleaving it in two. Salt water spilled everywhere,
and the great stone font crashed to the ﬂoor in pieces.
Tyson snorted and muttered, but he kept sleeping.
I sank to the ground, shivering from what I’d seen. Tyson
found me there in the morning, still staring at the shattered
remains of the saltwater fountain.
Just after dawn, the quest group met at Zeus’s Fist. I’d
packed my backpack – Thermos with nectar, bag of
ambrosia, bedroll, rope, clothes, ﬂashlights and lots of extra
batteries. I had Riptide in my pocket. 
The magic
shield/wristwatch Tyson had made for me was on my wrist.
It was a clear morning. The fog had burned oﬀ and the sky
was blue. Campers would be having their lessons today,
ﬂying pegasi and practising archery and scaling the lava
wall. Meanwhile, we would be heading underground.
Juniper and Grover stood apart from the group. Juniper
had been crying again, but she was trying to keep it
881
together for Grover’s sake. She kept fussing with his clothes,
straightening his Rasta cap and brushing goat fur oﬀ his
shirt. Since we had no idea what we would encounter, he
was dressed as a human, with the cap to hide his horns, and
jeans, fake feet and trainers to hide his goat legs.
Chiron, Quintus and Mrs O’Leary stood with the other
campers who’d come to wish us well, but there was too
much activity for it to feel like a happy send-oﬀ. A couple of
tents had been set up by the rocks for guard duty.
Beckendorf and his siblings were working on a line of
defensive spikes and trenches. Chiron had decided we
needed to guard the Labyrinth exit at all times, just in case.
Annabeth was doing one last check on her supply pack.
When Tyson and I came over, she frowned. ‘Percy, you look
terrible.’
‘He killed the water fountain last night,’ Tyson conﬁded.
‘What?’ she asked.
Before I could explain, Chiron trotted over. ‘Well, it
appears you are ready!’
He tried to sound upbeat, but I could tell he was anxious. I
didn’t want to freak him out any more, but I thought about
last night’s dream, and before I could change my mind, I
said, ‘Hey, uh, Chiron, can I ask you a favour while I’m
gone?’
‘Of course, my boy.’
‘Be right back, guys.’ I nodded towards the woods. Chiron
raised an eyebrow, but he followed me out of earshot.
‘Last night,’ I said, ‘I dreamed about Luke and Kronos.’ I
told him the details. The news seemed to weigh on his
shoulders.
‘I feared this,’ Chiron said. ‘Against my father, Kronos, we
would stand no chance in a ﬁght.’
Chiron rarely called Kronos his father. I mean, we all knew
it was true. Everybody in the Greek world – god, monster or
Titan – was related to one other somehow. But it wasn’t
exactly something Chiron liked to brag about. Oh, my dad is
882
the all-powerful evil Titan lord who wants to destroy
Western Civilization. I want to be just like him when I grow
up!
‘Do you know what he meant about a bargain?’ I asked.
‘I am not sure, but I fear they seek to make a deal with
Daedalus. If the old inventor is truly alive, if he has not been
driven insane by millennia in the Labyrinth… well, Kronos
can ﬁnd ways to twist anyone to his will.’
‘Not anyone,’ I promised.
Chiron managed a smile. ‘No. Perhaps not anyone. But,
Percy, you must beware. I have worried for some time that
Kronos may be looking for Daedalus for a diﬀerent reason,
not just passage through the maze.’
‘What else would he want?’
‘Something Annabeth and I were discussing. Do you
remember what you told me about your ﬁrst trip to the
Princess Andromeda, the ﬁrst time you saw the golden
coﬃn?’
I nodded. ‘Luke was talking about raising Kronos, little
pieces of him appearing in the coﬃn every time someone
new joined his cause.’
‘And what did Luke say they would do when Kronos had
risen completely?’
A chill went down my spine. ‘He said they would make
Kronos a new body, worthy of the forges of Hephaestus.’
‘Indeed,’ Chiron said. ‘Daedalus was the world’s greatest
inventor. He created the Labyrinth, but much more.
Automatons, thinking machines… What if Kronos wishes
Daedalus to make him a new form?’
That was a really pleasant thought.
‘We’ve got to get to Daedalus ﬁrst,’ I said, ‘and convince
him not to.’
Chiron stared oﬀ into the trees. ‘One other thing I do not
understand… this talk of a last soul joining their cause. That
does not bode well.’
883
I kept my mouth shut, but I felt guilty. I’d made the
decision not to tell Chiron about Nico being a son of Hades.
The mention of souls, though – What if Kronos knew about
Nico? What if he managed to turn him evil? It was almost
enough to make me want to tell Chiron, but I didn’t. For one
thing, I wasn’t sure Chiron could do anything about it. I had
to ﬁnd Nico myself. I had to explain things to him, make him
listen.
‘I don’t know,’ I said at last. ‘But, uh, something Juniper
said, maybe you should hear.’ I told him how the tree
nymph had seen Quintus poking around the rocks.
Chiron’s jaw tightened. ‘That does not surprise me.’
‘It doesn’t sur– you mean you knew?’
‘Percy, when Quintus showed up at camp, oﬀering his
services… well, I would have to be a fool not to be
suspicious.’
‘Then why did you let him in?’
‘Because sometimes it is better to have someone you
mistrust close to you, so that you can keep an eye on him.
He may be just what he says: a half-blood in search of a
home. Certainly he has done nothing openly that would
make me question his loyalty. But, believe me, I will keep an
eye –’
Annabeth trudged over, probably curious about why we
were taking so long.
‘Percy, you ready?’
I nodded. My hand slipped into my pocket, where I kept
the ice whistle Quintus had given me. I looked over and saw
Quintus watching me carefully. He raised his hand in
farewell.
Our spies report success, Luke had said. The same day we
decided to send a quest, Luke had known about it.
‘Take care,’ Chiron told us. ‘And good hunting.’
‘You, too,’ I said.
We walked over to the rocks, where Tyson and Grover
were waiting. I stared at the crack between the boulders –
884
the entrance that was about to swallow us.
‘Well,’ Grover said nervously, ‘goodbye, sunshine.’
‘Hello, rocks,’ Tyson agreed.
And, together, the four of us descended into darkness.
885
6    We Meet The God With Two Faces
 
We made it thirty metres before we were hopelessly lost.
The tunnel looked nothing like the one Annabeth and I had
stumbled into before. Now it was round like a sewer,
constructed of red brick with iron-barred portholes every
three metres. I shone a light through one of the portholes
out of curiosity, but I couldn’t see anything. It opened into
inﬁnite darkness. I thought I heard voices on the other side,
but it may have been just the cold wind.
Annabeth tried her best to guide us. She had this idea that
we should stick to the left wall.
‘If we keep one hand on the left wall and follow it,’ she
said, ‘we should be able to ﬁnd our way out again by
reversing course.’
Unfortunately, as soon as she said that, the left wall
disappeared. We found ourselves in the middle of a circular
chamber with eight tunnels leading out, and no idea how
we’d got there.
‘Um, which way did we come in?’ Grover said nervously.
‘Just turn around,’ Annabeth said.
We each turned towards a diﬀerent tunnel. It was
ridiculous. None of us could decide which way led back to
camp.
‘Left walls are mean,’ Tyson said. ‘Which way now?’
Annabeth swept her ﬂashlight beam over the archways of
the eight tunnels. As far as I could tell, they were identical.
‘That way,’ she said.
‘How do you know?’ I asked.
‘Deductive reasoning.’
886
‘So… you’re guessing.’
‘Just come on,’ she said.
The tunnel she’d chosen narrowed quickly. The walls
turned to grey cement, and the ceiling got so low that pretty
soon we were hunching over. Tyson was forced to crawl.
Grover’s hyperventilating was the loudest noise in the
maze. ‘I can’t stand it any more,’ he whispered. ‘Are we
there yet?’
‘We’ve been down here maybe ﬁve minutes,’ Annabeth
told him.
‘It’s been longer than that,’ Grover insisted. ‘And why
would Pan be down here? This is the opposite of the wild!’
We kept shuﬄing forward. Just when I was sure the tunnel
would get so narrow it would squish us, it opened into a
huge room. I shone my light around the walls and said,
‘Whoa.’
The whole room was covered in mosaic tiles. The pictures
were grimy and faded, but I could still make out the colours
– red, blue, green, gold. The frieze showed the Olympian
gods at a feast. There was my dad, Poseidon, with his
trident, holding out grapes for Dionysus to turn into wine.
Zeus was partying with satyrs, and Hermes was ﬂying
through the air on his winged sandals. The pictures were
beautiful, but they weren’t very accurate. I’d seen the gods.
Dionysus was not that handsome, and Hermes’s nose
wasn’t that big.
In the middle of the room was a three-tiered fountain. It
looked like it hadn’t held water in a long time.
‘What is this place?’ I muttered. ‘It looks –’
‘Roman,’ Annabeth said. ‘Those mosaics are about two
thousand years old.’
‘But how can they be Roman?’ I wasn’t that great on
ancient history, but I was pretty sure the Roman Empire
never made it as far as Long Island.
‘The Labyrinth is a patchwork,’ Annabeth said. ‘I told you,
it’s always expanding, adding pieces. It’s the only work of
887
architecture that grows by itself.’
‘You make it sound like it’s alive.’
A groaning noise echoed from the tunnel in front of us.
‘Let’s not talk about it being alive,’ Grover whimpered.
‘Please?’
‘All right,’ Annabeth said. ‘Forward.’
‘Down the hall with the bad sounds?’ Tyson said. Even he
looked nervous.
‘Yeah,’ Annabeth said. ‘The architecture is getting older.
That’s a good sign. Daedalus’s workshop would be in the
oldest part.’
That made sense. But soon the maze was toying with us –
we went ﬁfteen metres and the tunnel turned back to
cement, with brass pipes running down the sides. The walls
were spray-painted with graﬃti. A neon tag sign read: moz
rulz.
‘I’m thinking this is not Roman,’ I said helpfully.
Annabeth took a deep breath, then forged ahead.
Every few metres the tunnels twisted and turned and
branched oﬀ. The ﬂoor beneath us changed from cement to
mud to bricks and back again. There was no sense to any of
it. We stumbled into a wine cellar – a bunch of dusty bottles
in wooden racks – like we were walking through somebody’s
basement, only there was no exit ahead of us, just more
tunnels leading on.
Later the ceiling turned to wooden planks, and I could
hear voices above us and the creaking of footsteps, as if we
were walking under some kind of bar. It was reassuring to
hear people, but then again we couldn’t get to them. We
were stuck down here with no way out. Then we found our
ﬁrst skeleton.
He was dressed in white clothes, like some kind of
uniform. A wooden crate of glass bottles sat next to him.
‘A milkman,’ Annabeth said.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘They used to deliver milk.’
888
‘Yeah, I know what they are, but… that was when my mom
was little, like a million years ago. What’s he doing here?’
‘Some people wander in by mistake,’ Annabeth said.
‘Some come exploring on purpose and never make it back.
A long time ago, the Cretans even sent people in here as
human sacriﬁces.’
Grover gulped. ‘He’s been down here a long time.’ He
pointed to the skeleton’s bottles, which were coated with
white dust. The skeleton’s ﬁngers were clawing at the brick
wall, like he had died trying to get out.
‘Only bones,’ Tyson said. ‘Don’t worry, goat boy. The
milkman is dead.’
‘The milkman doesn’t bother me,’ Grover said. ‘It’s the
smell. Monsters. Can’t you smell it?’
Tyson nodded. ‘Lots of monsters. But underground smells
like that. Monsters and dead milk people.’
‘Oh, good,’ Grover whimpered. ‘I thought maybe I was
wrong.’
‘We have to get deeper into the maze,’ Annabeth said.
‘There has to be a way to the centre.’
She led us to the right, then the left, through a corridor of
stainless steel like some kind of air shaft, and we arrived
back in the Roman tile room with the fountain.
This time, we weren’t alone.
What I noticed ﬁrst were his faces. Both of them. They
jutted out from either side of his head, staring over his
shoulders, so his head was much wider than it should’ve
been, kind of like a hammerhead shark’s. Looking straight at
him, all I saw were two overlapping ears and mirror-image
sideburns.
He was dressed like a New York City doorman: a long black
overcoat, shiny shoes and a black top hat that somehow
managed to stay on his double-wide head.
‘Well, Annabeth?’ said his left face. ‘Hurry up!’
889
‘Don’t mind him,’ said the right face. ‘He’s terribly rude.
Right this way, miss.’
Annabeth’s jaw dropped. ‘Uh… I don’t…,’
Tyson frowned. ‘That funny man has two faces.’
‘The funny man has ears, you know!’ the left face scolded.
‘Now come along, miss.’
‘No, no,’ the right face said. ‘This way, miss. Talk to me,
please.’
The two-faced man regarded Annabeth as best he could
out of the corners of his eyes. It was impossible to look at
him straight on without focusing on one side or the other.
And suddenly I realized that’s what he was asking – he
wanted Annabeth to choose.
Behind him were two exits, blocked by wooden doors with
huge iron locks. They hadn’t been there our ﬁrst time
through the room. The two-faced doorman held a silver key,
which he kept passing from his left hand to his right hand. I
wondered if this were a diﬀerent room completely, but the
frieze of the gods looked exactly the same.
Behind us, the doorway we’d come through had
disappeared, replaced by more mosaics. We wouldn’t be
going back the way we’d come.
‘The exits are closed,’ Annabeth said.
‘Duh!’ the man’s left face said.
‘Where do they lead?’ she asked.
‘One probably leads the way you wish to go,’ the right
face said encouragingly. ‘The other leads to certain death.’
‘I – I know who you are,’ Annabeth said.
‘Oh, you’re a smart one!’ the left face sneered. ‘But do
you know which way to choose? I don’t have all day.’
‘Why are you trying to confuse me?’ Annabeth asked.
The right face smiled. ‘You’re in charge now, my dear. All
the decisions are on your shoulders. That’s what you
wanted, isn’t it?’
‘I –’
890
‘We know you, Annabeth,’ the left face said. ‘We know
what you wrestle with every day. We know your indecision.
You will have to make your choice sooner or later. And the
choice may kill you.’
I didn’t know what they were talking about, but it sounded
like it was about more than a choice between doors.
The colour drained out of Annabeth’s face. ‘No… I don’t –’
‘Leave her alone,’ I said. ‘Who are you, anyway?’
‘I’m your best friend,’ the right face said.
‘I’m your worst enemy,’ the left face said.
‘I’m Janus,’ both faces said in harmony. ‘God of Doorways.
Beginnings. Endings. Choices.’
‘I’ll see you soon enough, Perseus Jackson,’ said the right
face. ‘But for now it’s Annabeth’s turn.’ He laughed giddily.
‘Such fun!’
‘Shut up!’ his left face said. ‘This is serious. One bad
choice can ruin your whole life. It can kill you and all your
friends. But no pressure, Annabeth. Choose!’
With a sudden chill, I remembered the words of the
prophecy: the child of Athena’s ﬁnal stand.
‘Don’t do it,’ I said.
‘I’m afraid she has to,’ the right face said cheerfully.
Annabeth moistened her lips. ‘I – I choose –’
Before she could point to a door, a brilliant light ﬂooded
the room.
Janus raised his hands to either side of his head to cover
his eyes. When the light died, a woman was standing at the
fountain.
She was tall and graceful, with long hair the colour of
chocolate, braided in plaits with gold ribbons. She wore a
simple white dress, but when she moved, the fabric
shimmered with colours like oil on water.
‘Janus,’ she said. ‘Are we causing trouble again?’
‘N-no, milady!’ Janus’s right face stammered.
‘Yes!’ the left face said.
‘Shut up!’ the right face said.
891
‘Excuse me?’ the woman asked.
‘Not you, milady! I was talking to myself.’
‘I see,’ the lady said. ‘You know very well your visit is
premature. The girl’s time has not yet come. So I give you a
choice: leave these heroes to me, or I shall turn you into a
door and break you down.’
‘What kind of door?’ the left face asked.
‘Shut up!’ the right face said.
‘Because French doors are nice,’ the left face mused. ‘Lots
of natural light.’
‘Shut up!’ the right face wailed. ‘Not you, milady! Of
course I’ll leave. I was just having a bit of fun. Doing my job.
Oﬀering choices.’
‘Causing indecision,’ the woman corrected. ‘Now begone!’
The left face muttered, ‘Party pooper,’ then he raised his
silver key, inserted it into the air and disappeared.
The woman turned towards us, and fear closed around my
heart. Her eyes shone with power. Leave these heroes to
me. That didn’t sound good. For a second, I almost wished
we could’ve taken our chances with Janus. But then the
woman smiled.
‘You must be hungry,’ she said. ‘Sit with me and talk.’
She waved her hand, and the old Roman fountain began
to ﬂow. Jets of clear water sprayed into the air. A marble
table appeared, laden with platters of sandwiches and
pitchers of lemonade.
‘Who… who are you?’ I asked.
‘I am Hera.’ The woman smiled. ‘Queen of Heaven.’
∗  ∗  ∗
 
I’d seen Hera once before, at a council of the gods, but I
hadn’t paid much attention to her. At the time I’d been
surrounded by a bunch of other gods who were debating
whether or not to kill me.
892
I didn’t remember her looking so normal. Of course, gods
are usually seven metres tall when they’re on Olympus, so
that makes them look a lot less normal. But, now, Hera
looked like a regular mom.
She served us sandwiches and poured lemonade.
‘Grover, dear,’ she said. ‘Use your napkin. Don’t eat it.’
‘Yes, ma’am,’ Grover said.
‘Tyson, you’re wasting away. Would you like another
peanut-butter sandwich?’
Tyson stiﬂed a belch. ‘Yes, nice lady.’
‘Queen Hera,’ Annabeth said. ‘I can’t believe it. What are
you doing in the Labyrinth?’
Hera smiled. She ﬂicked one ﬁnger and Annabeth’s hair
combed itself. All the dirt and grime disappeared from her
face.
‘I came to see you, naturally,’ the goddess said.
Grover and I exchanged nervous looks. Usually when gods
come looking for you, it’s not out of the goodness of their
hearts. It’s because they want something.
Still, that didn’t keep me from chowing down on turkey-
and-Swiss-cheese sandwiches and crisps and lemonade. I
hadn’t realized how hungry I was. Tyson was inhaling one
peanut-butter sandwich after another, and Grover was
loving the lemonade, crunching the Styrofoam cup like an
ice-cream cone.
‘I didn’t think –’ Annabeth faltered. ‘Well, I didn’t think you
liked heroes.’
Hera smiled indulgently. ‘Because of that little spat I had
with Hercules? Honestly, I got so much bad press because of
one disagreement.’
‘Didn’t you try to kill him, like, a lot of times?’ Annabeth
asked.
Hera waved her hand dismissively. ‘Water under the
bridge, my dear. Besides, he was one of my loving
husband’s children by another woman. My patience wore
thin, I’ll admit it. But Zeus and I have had some excellent
893
marriage counselling sessions since then. We’ve aired our
feelings and come to an understanding – especially after
that last little incident.’
‘You mean when he sired Thalia?’ I guessed, but
immediately wished I hadn’t. As soon as I said the name of
our friend, the half-blood daughter of Zeus, Hera’s eyes
turned towards me frostily.
‘Percy Jackson, isn’t it? One of Poseidon’s… children.’ I got
the feeling she was thinking of another word besides
‘children.’ As I recall, I voted to let you live at the winter
solstice. I hope I voted correctly.’
She turned back to Annabeth with a sunny smile. ‘At any
rate, I certainly bear you no ill will, my girl. I appreciate the
diﬃculty 
of 
your 
quest. 
Especially 
when 
you 
have
troublemakers like Janus to deal with.’
Annabeth lowered her gaze. ‘Why was he here? He was
driving me crazy.’
‘Trying to,’ Hera agreed. ‘You must understand, the minor
gods like Janus have always been frustrated by their small
parts to play in the universe. Some, I fear, have little love
for Olympus, and could easily be swayed to support the rise
of my father.’
‘Your father?’ I said. ‘Oh. Right.’
I’d forgotten that Kronos was Hera’s dad, too, along with
Zeus, Poseidon and all the eldest Olympians. I guess that
made Kronos my grandfather, but that thought was so weird
I put it out of my mind.
‘We must watch the minor gods,’ Hera said. ‘Janus.
Hecate. Morpheus. They give lip service to Olympus, and yet
–’
‘That’s where Dionysus went,’ I remembered. ‘He was
checking on the minor gods.’
‘Indeed.’ Hera stared at the fading mosaics of the
Olympians. ‘You see, in times of trouble, even gods can lose
faith. They start putting their trust in the wrong things, petty
things. They stop looking at the big picture and start being
894
selﬁsh. But I’m the goddess of marriage, you see. I’m used
to perseverance. You have to rise above the squabbling and
chaos and keep believing. You have to always keep your
goals in mind.’
‘What are your goals?’ Annabeth asked.
She smiled. ‘To keep my family, the Olympians, together,
of course. At the moment, the best way I can do that is by
helping you. Zeus does not allow me to interfere much, I am
afraid. But once every century or so, for a quest I care
deeply about, he allows me to grant a wish.’
‘A wish?’
‘Before you ask it, let me give you some advice, which I
can do for free. I know you seek Daedalus. His Labyrinth is
as much a mystery to me as it is to you. But if you want to
know his fate, I would visit my son Hephaestus at his forge.
Daedalus was a great inventor, a mortal after Hephaestus’s
heart. There has never been a mortal Hephaestus admired
more. If anyone would have kept up with Daedalus and
could tell you his fate, it is Hephaestus.’
‘But how do we get there?’ Annabeth asked. ‘That’s my
wish. I want a way to navigate the Labyrinth.’
Hera looked disappointed. ‘So be it. You wish for
something, however, that you have already been given.’
‘I don’t understand.’
‘The means is already within your grasp.’ She looked at
me. ‘Percy knows the answer.’
‘I do?’
‘But that’s not fair,’ Annabeth said. ‘You’re not telling us
what it is!’
Hera shook her head. ‘Getting something and having the
wits to use it… those are two diﬀerent things. I’m sure your
mother, Athena, would agree.’
The room rumbled like distant thunder. Hera stood. ‘That
would be my cue. Zeus grows impatient. Think on what I
have said, Annabeth. Seek out Hephaestus. You will have to
pass through the ranch, I imagine. But keep going. And use
895
all the means at your disposal, however common they may
seem.’
She pointed towards the two doors and they melted away,
revealing twin corridors, open and dark. ‘One last thing,
Annabeth. I have postponed your day of choice. I have not
prevented it. Soon, as Janus said, you will have to make a
decision. Farewell!’
She waved a hand and turned into white smoke. So did
the food, just as Tyson chomped down on a sandwich that
turned to mist in his mouth. The fountain trickled to a stop.
The mosaic walls dimmed and turned grungy and faded
again. The room was no longer any place you’d want to
have a picnic.
Annabeth stamped her foot. ‘What sort of help was that?
“Here, have a sandwich. Make a wish. Oops, I can’t help
you!” Poof!’
‘Poof,’ Tyson agreed sadly, looking at his empty plate.
‘Well,’ Grover sighed, ‘she said Percy knows the answer.
That’s something.’
They all looked at me.
‘But I don’t,’ I said. ‘I don’t know what she was talking
about.’
Annabeth sighed. ‘All right. Then we’ll just keep going.’
‘Which way?’ I asked. I really wanted to ask what Hera had
meant – about the choice Annabeth needed to make. But
then Grover and Tyson both tensed. They stood up together,
like they’d rehearsed it. ‘Left,’ they both said.
Annabeth frowned. ‘How can you be sure?’
‘Because something is coming from the right,’ Grover
said.
‘Something big,’ Tyson agreed. ‘In a hurry.’
‘Left is sounding pretty good,’ I decided. Together we
plunged into the dark corridor.
896
7    Tyson Leads a Jailbreak
 
The good news: the left tunnel was straight with no side
exits, twists or turns. The bad news: it was a dead end. After
sprinting a hundred metres, we ran into an enormous
boulder that completely blocked our path. Behind us, the
sounds of dragging footsteps and heavy breathing echoed
down the corridor. Something – deﬁnitely not human – was
on our trail.
‘Tyson,’ I said, ‘can you –’
‘Yes!’ He slammed his shoulder against the rock so hard
the whole tunnel shook. Dust trickled from the stone ceiling.
‘Hurry!’ Grover said. ‘Don’t bring the roof down, but
hurry!’
The boulder ﬁnally gave way with a horrible grinding
noise. Tyson pushed it into a small room, and we dashed
through behind it.
‘Close the entrance!’ Annabeth said.
We all got on the other side of the boulder and pushed.
Whatever was chasing us wailed in frustration as we heaved
the rock back into place and sealed the corridor.
‘We trapped it,’ I said.
‘Or trapped ourselves,’ Grover said.
I turned. We were in a six-metre-square cement room, and
the opposite wall was covered with metal bars. We’d
tunnelled straight into a cell.
‘What in Hades?’ Annabeth tugged on the bars. They didn’t
budge. Through the bars we could see rows of cells in a ring
897
around a dark courtyard – at least three stories of metal
doors and metal catwalks.
‘A prison,’ I said. ‘Maybe Tyson can break –’
‘Shh,’ said Grover. ‘Listen.’
Somewhere above us, deep sobbing echoed through the
building. There was another sound, too – a raspy voice
muttering something that I couldn’t make out. The words
were strange, like rocks in a tumbler.
‘What’s that language?’ I whispered.
Tyson’s eye widened. ‘Can’t be.’
‘What?’ I asked.
He grabbed two bars on our cell door and bent them wide
enough for even a Cyclops to slip through.
‘Wait!’ Grover called.
But Tyson wasn’t about to wait. We ran after him. The
prison was dark, only a few dim ﬂuorescent lights ﬂickering
above.
‘I know this place,’ Annabeth told me. ‘This is Alcatraz.’
‘You mean that island near San Francisco?’
She nodded. ‘My school took a ﬁeld trip here. It’s like a
museum.’
It didn’t seem possible that we could’ve popped out of the
Labyrinth on the other side of the country, but Annabeth
had been living in San Francisco all year, keeping an eye on
Mount Tamalpais, just across the bay. She probably knew
what she was talking about.
‘Freeze,’ Grover warned.
But Tyson kept going. Grover grabbed his arm and pulled
him back with all his strength. ‘Stop, Tyson!’ he whispered.
‘Can’t you see it?’
I looked where he was pointing, and my stomach did a
somersault. On the second-ﬂoor balcony, across the
courtyard, was a monster more horrible than anything I’d
ever seen before.
It was sort of like a centaur, with a woman’s body from the
waist up. But instead of a horse’s lower body, it had the
898
body of a dragon – at least seven metres long, black and
scaly with enormous claws and a barbed tail. Her legs
looked like they were tangled in vines, but then I realized
they were sprouting snakes, hundreds of vipers darting
around, constantly looking for something to bite. The
woman’s hair was also made of snakes, like Medusa’s.
Weirdest of all, around her waist, where the woman part met
the 
dragon 
part, 
her 
skin 
bubbled 
and 
morphed,
occasionally producing the heads of animals – a vicious wolf,
a bear, a lion, as if she were wearing a belt of ever-changing
creatures. I got the feeling I was looking at something half
formed, a monster so old it was from the beginning of time,
before shapes had been fully deﬁned.
‘It’s her,’ Tyson whimpered.
‘Get down!’ Grover said.
We crouched in the shadows, but the monster wasn’t
paying us any attention. It seemed to be talking to someone
inside a cell on the second ﬂoor. That’s where the sobbing
was coming from. The dragon woman said something in her
weird rumbling language.
‘What’s she saying?’ I muttered. ‘What’s that language?’
‘The tongue of the old times.’ Tyson shivered. ‘What
Mother Earth spoke to Titans and… her other children.
Before the gods.’
‘You understand it?’ I asked. ‘Can you translate?’
Tyson closed his eyes and began to speak in a horrible,
raspy woman’s voice. ‘You will work for the master or suﬀer.’
Annabeth shuddered. ‘I hate it when he does that.’
Like all Cyclopes, Tyson had superhuman hearing and an
uncanny ability to mimic voices. It was almost like he
entered a trance when he spoke in other voices.
‘I will not serve,’ Tyson said in a deep, wounded voice.
He switched to the monster’s voice: ‘Then I shall enjoy
your pain, Briares.’ Tyson faltered when he said that name.
I’d never heard him break character when he was mimicking
somebody, but he let out a strangled gulp. Then he
899
continued in the monster‘s voice. ‘If you thought your ﬁrst
imprisonment was unbearable, you have yet to feel true
torment. Think on this until I return.’
The dragon lady tromped towards the stairwell, vipers
hissing around her legs like grass skirts. She spread wings
that I hadn’t noticed before – huge bat wings she kept
folded against her dragon back. She leaped oﬀ the catwalk
and soared across the courtyard. We crouched lower in the
shadows. A hot sulphurous wind blasted my face as the
monster ﬂew over. Then she disappeared around the corner.
‘H-h-horrible,’ Grover said. ‘I’ve never smelled any
monster that strong.’
‘Cyclopes’ worst nightmare,’ Tyson murmured. ‘Kampê.’
‘Who?’ I asked.
Tyson swallowed. ‘Every Cyclops knows about her. Stories
about her scare us when we’re babies. She was our jailer in
the bad years.’
Annabeth nodded. ‘I remember now. When the Titans
ruled, they imprisoned Gaia and Ouranos’s earlier children –
the Cyclopes and the Hekatonkheires.’
‘The Heka-what?’ I asked.
‘The Hundred-handed Ones,’ she said. ‘They called them
that because… well, they had a hundred hands. They were
elder brothers of the Cyclopes.’
‘Very powerful,’ Tyson said. ‘Wonderful! As tall as the sky.
So strong they could break mountains!’
‘Cool,’ I said. ‘Unless you’re a mountain.’
‘Kampê was the jailer,’ he said. ‘She worked for Kronos.
She kept our brothers locked up in Tartarus, tortured them
always, until Zeus came. He killed Kampê and freed
Cyclopes and Hundred-handed Ones to help ﬁght against
the Titans in the big war.’
‘And now Kampê is back,’ I said.
‘Bad,’ Tyson summed up.
‘So who’s in that cell?’ I asked. ‘You said a name –’
900
‘Briares!’ Tyson perked up. ‘He is a Hundred-handed One.
They are as tall as the sky and –’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘They break mountains.’
I looked up at the cells above us, wondering how
something as tall as the sky could ﬁt in a tiny cell, and why
he was crying.
‘I guess we should check it out,’ Annabeth said, ‘before
Kampê comes back.’
As we approached the cell, the weeping got louder. When I
ﬁrst saw the creature inside, I wasn’t sure what I was
looking at. He was human-size and his skin was very pale,
the colour of milk. He wore a loincloth like a big diaper. His
feet seemed too big for his body, with cracked dirty toenails,
eight toes on each foot. But the top half of his body was the
weird part. He made Janus look downright normal. His chest
sprouted more arms than I could count, in rows, all around
his body. The arms looked like normal arms, but there were
so many of them, all tangled together, that his chest looked
kind of like a forkful of spaghetti somebody had twirled
together. Several of his hands were covering his face as he
sobbed.
‘Either the sky isn’t as tall as it used to be,’ I muttered, ‘or
he’s short.’
Tyson didn’t pay any attention. He fell to his knees.
‘Briares!’ he called.
The sobbing stopped.
‘Great Hundred-handed One!’ Tyson said. ‘Help us!’
Briares looked up. His face was long and sad, with a
crooked nose and bad teeth. He had deep brown eyes – I
mean completely brown with no whites or black pupils, like
eyes formed out of clay.
‘Run while you can, Cyclops,’ Briares said miserably. ‘I
cannot even help myself.’
‘You are a Hundred-handed One!’ Tyson insisted. ‘You can
do anything!’
901
Briares wiped his nose with ﬁve or six hands. Several
others were ﬁdgeting with little pieces of metal and wood
from a broken bed, the way Tyson always played with spare
parts. It was amazing to watch. The hands seemed to have
a mind of their own. They built a toy boat out of wood, then
disassembled it just as fast. Other hands were scratching at
the cement ﬂoor for no apparent reason. Others were
playing rock, paper, scissors. A few others were making
ducky and doggie shadow puppets against the wall.
‘I cannot,’ Briares moaned. ‘Kampê is back! The Titans will
rise and throw us back into Tartarus.’
‘Put on your brave face!’ Tyson said.
Immediately Briares’s face morphed into something else.
Same brown eyes, but otherwise totally diﬀerent features.
He had an upturned nose, arched eyebrows and a weird
smile, like he was trying to act brave. But then his face
turned back to what it had been before.
‘No good,’ he said. ‘My scared face keeps coming back.’
‘How did you do that?’ I asked.
Annabeth elbowed me. ‘Don’t be rude. The Hundred-
handed Ones have ﬁfty diﬀerent faces.’
‘Must make it hard to get a yearbook picture,’ I said.
Tyson was still entranced. ‘It will be okay, Briares! We will
help you! Can I have your autograph?’
Briares sniﬄed. ‘Do you have one hundred pens?’
‘Guys,’ Grover interrupted. ‘We have to get out of here.
Kampê will be back. She’ll sense us sooner or later.’
‘Break the bars,’ Annabeth said.
‘Yes!’ Tyson said, smiling proudly. ‘Briares can do it. He is
very strong. Stronger than Cyclopes, even! Watch!’
Briares whimpered. A dozen of his hands started playing
pat-a-cake, but none of them made any attempt to break
the bars.
‘If he’s so strong,’ I said, ‘why is he stuck in jail?’
Annabeth 
elbowed 
me 
again. 
‘He’s 
terriﬁed,’ 
she
whispered. ‘Kampê imprisoned him in Tartarus for thousands
902
of years. How would you feel?’
The Hundred-handed One covered his face again.
‘Briares?’ Tyson asked. ‘What… what is wrong? Show us
your great strength!’
‘Tyson,’ Annabeth said, ‘I think you’d better break the
bars.’
Tyson’s smile melted slowly.
‘I will break the bars,’ he repeated. He grabbed the cell
door and ripped it oﬀ its hinges like it was made of wet clay.
‘Come on, Briares,’ Annabeth said. ‘Let’s get you out of
here.’
She held out her hand. For a second, Briares’s face
morphed to a hopeful expression. Several of his arms
reached out, but twice as many slapped them away.
‘I cannot,’ he said. ‘She will punish me.’
‘It’s all right,’ Annabeth promised. ‘You fought the Titans
before, and you won, remember?’
‘I remember the war.’ Briares’s face morphed again –
furrowed brow and a pouting mouth. His brooding face, I
guess. ‘Lightning shook the world. We threw many rocks.
The Titans and the monsters almost won. Now they are
getting strong again. Kampê said so.’
‘Don’t listen to her,’ I said. ‘Come on!’
He didn’t move. I knew Grover was right. We didn’t have
much time before Kampê returned. But I couldn’t just leave
him here. Tyson would cry for weeks.
‘One game of rock, paper, scissors,’ I blurted out. ‘If I win,
you come with us. If I lose, we’ll leave you in jail.’
Annabeth looked at me like I was crazy.
Briares’s face morphed to doubtful. ‘I always win rock,
paper, scissors.’
‘Then let’s do it!’ I pounded my ﬁst in my palm three
times.
Briares did the same with all one hundred hands, which
sounded like an army marching three steps forward. He
903
came up with a whole avalanche of rocks, a classroom set of
scissors and enough paper to make a ﬂeet of aeroplanes.
‘I told you,’ he said sadly. ‘I always –’ His face morphed to
confusion. ‘What is that you made?’
‘A gun,’ I told him, showing him my ﬁnger gun. It was a
trick Paul Bloﬁs had pulled on me, but I wasn’t going to tell
him that. ‘A gun beats anything.’
‘That’s not fair.’
‘I didn’t say anything about fair. Kampê’s not going to be
fair if we hang around. She’s going to blame you for ripping
oﬀ the bars. Now come on!’
Briares sniﬄed. ‘Demigods are cheaters.’ But he slowly
rose to his feet and followed us out of the cell.
I started to feel hopeful. All we had to do was get
downstairs and ﬁnd the Labyrinth entrance. But then Tyson
froze.
On the ground ﬂoor right below, Kampê was snarling at
us.
‘The other way,’ I said.
We bolted down the catwalk. This time Briares was happy
to follow us. In fact he sprinted out front, a hundred arms
waving in panic.
Behind us, I heard the sound of giant wings as Kampê took
to the air. She hissed and growled in her ancient language,
but I didn’t need a translation to know she was planning to
kill us.
We scrambled down the stairs, through a corridor and past
a guard’s station – out into another block of prison cells.
‘Left,’ Annabeth said. ‘I remember this from the tour.’
We burst outside and found ourselves in the prison yard,
ringed by security towers and barbed wire. After being
inside so long, the daylight almost blinded me. Tourists were
milling around, taking pictures. The wind whipped cold oﬀ
the bay. In the south, San Francisco gleamed all white and
beautiful, but in the north, over Mount Tamalpais, huge
904
storm clouds swirled. The whole sky seemed like a black top
spinning from the mountain where Atlas was imprisoned,
and where the Titan palace of Mount Othrys was rising
anew. It was hard to believe the tourists couldn’t see the
supernatural storm brewing, but they didn’t give any hint
that anything was wrong.
‘It’s even worse,’ Annabeth said, gazing to the north. ‘The
storms have been bad all year, but that –’
‘Keep moving,’ Briares wailed. ‘She is behind us!’
We ran to the far end of the yard, as far from the cell
block as possible.
‘Kampê’s too big to get through the doors,’ I said
hopefully.
Then the wall exploded.
Tourists screamed as Kampê appeared from the dust and
rubble, her wings spread out as wide as the yard. She was
holding two swords – long bronze scimitars that glowed with
a weird greenish aura, boiling wisps of vapour that smelled
sour and hot even across the yard.
‘Poison!’ Grover yelped. ‘Don’t let those things touch you
or…’
‘Or we’ll die?’ I guessed.
‘Well… after you shrivel slowly to dust, yes.’
‘Let’s avoid the swords,’ I decided.
‘Briares, ﬁght!’ Tyson urged. ‘Grow to full size!’
Instead, Briares looked like he was trying to shrink even
smaller. He appeared to be wearing his ‘absolutely terriﬁed’
face.
Kampê thundered towards us on her dragon legs,
hundreds of snakes slithering around her body.
For a second I thought about drawing Riptide and facing
her, but my heart crawled into my throat. Then Annabeth
said what I was thinking: ‘Run.’
That was the end of the debate. There was no ﬁghting this
thing. We ran through the jail yard and out the gates of the
905
prison, the monster right behind us. Mortals screamed and
ran. Emergency sirens began to blare.
We hit the wharf just as a tour boat was unloading. The
new group of visitors froze as they saw us charging towards
them, followed by a mob of frightened tourists, followed
by… I don’t know what they saw through the Mist, but it
could not have been good.
‘The boat?’ Grover asked.
‘Too slow,’ Tyson said. ‘Back into the maze. Only chance.’
‘We need a diversion,’ Annabeth said.
Tyson ripped a metal lamppost out of the ground. ‘I will
distract Kampê. You run around, back to the prison.’
‘I’ll help you,’ I said.
‘No,’ Tyson said. ‘You go. Poison will hurt Cyclopes. A lot of
pain. But it won’t kill.’
‘Are you sure?’
‘Go, brother. I will meet you inside.’
I hated the idea. I’d almost lost Tyson once before, and I
didn’t want to ever risk that again. But there was no time to
argue, and I had no better idea. Annabeth, Grover and I
each took one of Briares’s hands and dragged him towards
the concession stands while Tyson bellowed, lowered his
pole and charged Kampê like a jousting knight.
She’d been glaring at Briares, but Tyson got her attention
as soon as he nailed her in the chest with the pole, pushing
her back into the wall. She shrieked and slashed with her
swords, slicing the pole to shreds. Poison dripped in pools all
around her, sizzling into the cement.
Tyson jumped back as Kampê’s hair lashed and hissed,
and the vipers around her legs darted their tongues in every
direction. A lion popped out of the weird half-formed faces
around her waist and roared.
As we sprinted for the cell blocks, the last thing I saw was
Tyson picking up an ice-cream stand and throwing it at
Kampê. Ice cream and poison exploded everywhere, all the
906
little snakes in Kampê’s hair dotted with chocolate sauce.
We dashed back into the jail yard.
‘Can’t make it,’ Briares huﬀed.
‘Tyson is risking his life to help you!’ I yelled at him. ‘You
will make it.’
As we reached the door of the cell block, I heard an angry
roar. I glanced back and saw Tyson running towards us at
full speed, Kampê right behind him. She was plastered in ice
cream and T-shirts. One of the bear heads on her waist was
now wearing a pair of crooked plastic Alcatraz sunglasses.
‘Hurry!’ Annabeth said, like I needed to be told that.
We ﬁnally found the cell where we’d come in, but the back
wall was completely smooth – no sign of a boulder or
anything.
‘Look for the mark!’ Annabeth said.
‘There!’ Grover touched a tiny scratch, and it became a
Greek Δ. The mark of Daedalus glowed blue, and the stone
wall ground open.
Too slowly. Tyson was coming through the cell block,
Kampê’s 
swords 
lashing 
out 
behind 
him, 
slicing
indiscriminately through cell bars and stone walls.
I pushed Briares inside the maze, then Annabeth and
Grover.
‘You can do it!’ I told Tyson. But immediately I knew he
couldn’t. Kampê was gaining. She raised her swords. I
needed a distraction – something big. I slapped my
wristwatch and it spiralled into a bronze shield. Desperately,
I threw it at the monster’s face.
SMACK! The shield hit her in the face and she faltered just
long enough for Tyson to dive past me into the maze. I was
right behind him.
Kampê charged, but she was too late. The stone door
closed and its magic sealed us in. I could feel the whole
tunnel shake as Kampê pounded against it, roaring furiously.
We didn’t stick around to play knock, knock with her,
907
though. We raced into the darkness, and for the ﬁrst time
(and the last) I was glad to be back in the Labyrinth.
908
8    We Visit The Demon Dude Ranch
 
We ﬁnally stopped in a room full of waterfalls. The ﬂoor was
one big pit, ringed by a slippery stone walkway. Around us
on all four walls, water tumbled from huge pipes. The water
spilled down into the pit, and even when I shone a light, I
couldn’t see the bottom.
Briares slumped against the wall. He scooped up water in
a dozen hands and washed his face. ‘This pit goes straight
to Tartarus,’ he murmured. ‘I should jump in and save you
trouble.’
‘Don’t talk that way,’ Annabeth told him. ‘You can come
back to camp with us. You can help us prepare. You know
more about ﬁghting Titans than anybody.’
‘I have nothing to oﬀer,’ Briares said. ‘I have lost
everything.’
‘What about your brothers?’ Tyson asked. ‘The other two
must still stand tall as mountains! We can take you to
them.’
Briares’s expression morphed to something even sadder:
his grieving face. ‘They are no more. They faded.’
The waterfalls thundered. Tyson stared into the pit and
blinked tears out of his eye.
‘What exactly do you mean, they faded?’ I asked. ‘I
thought monsters were immortal, like the gods.’
‘Percy,’ Grover said weakly. ‘Even immortality has limits.
Sometimes… sometimes monsters get forgotten and they
lose their will to stay immortal.’
Looking at Grover’s face, I wondered if he were thinking of
Pan. I remembered something Medusa had told us once:
909
how her sisters, the other two gorgons, had passed on and
left her alone. Then last year Apollo said something about
the old god Helios disappearing and leaving him with the
duties of the sun god. I’d never thought about it too much,
but now, looking at Briares, I realized how terrible it would
be to be so old – thousands and thousands of years old –
and totally alone.
‘I must go,’ Briares said.
‘Kronos’s army will invade camp,’ Tyson said. ‘We need
help.’
Briares hung his head. ‘I cannot, Cyclops.’
‘You are strong.’
‘Not any more.’ Briares rose.
‘Hey.’ I grabbed one of his arms and pulled him aside,
where the roar of the water would hide our words. ‘Briares,
we need you. In case you haven’t noticed, Tyson believes in
you. He risked his life for you.’
I told him about everything – Luke’s invasion plan, the
Labyrinth entrance at camp, Daedalus’s workshop, Kronos’s
golden coﬃn.
Briares just shook his head. ‘I cannot, demigod. I do not
have a ﬁnger gun to win this game.’ To prove his point, he
made one hundred ﬁnger guns.
‘Maybe that’s why monsters fade,’ I said. ‘Maybe it’s not
about what the mortals believe. Maybe it’s because you
give up on yourself.’
His pure brown eyes regarded me. His face morphed into
an expression I recognized – shame. Then he turned and
trudged oﬀ down the corridor until he was lost in the
shadows.
Tyson sobbed.
‘It’s okay.’ Grover hesitantly patted his shoulder, which
must’ve taken all his courage.
Tyson sneezed. ‘It is not okay, goat boy. He was my hero.’
I wanted to make him feel better, but I wasn’t sure what
to say.
910
Finally, Annabeth stood and shouldered her backpack.
‘Come on, guys. This pit is making me nervous. Let’s ﬁnd a
better place to camp for the night.’
We settled in a corridor made of huge marble blocks. It
looked like it could’ve been part of a Greek tomb, with
bronze torch holders fastened to the walls. It had to be an
older part of the maze, and Annabeth decided this was a
good sign.
‘We must be close to Daedalus’s workshop,’ she said. ‘Get
some rest, everybody. We’ll keep going in the morning.’
‘How do we know when it’s morning?’ Grover asked.
‘Just rest,’ she insisted.
Grover didn’t need to be told twice. He pulled a heap of
straw out of his pack, ate some of it, made a pillow out of
the rest and was snoring in no time. Tyson took longer
getting to sleep. He tinkered with some metal scraps from
his building kit for a while, but whatever he was making, he
wasn’t happy with it. He kept disassembling the pieces.
‘I’m sorry I lost the shield,’ I told him. ‘You worked so hard
to repair it.’
Tyson looked up. His eye was bloodshot from crying. ‘Do
not worry, brother. You saved me. You wouldn’t have had to
if Briares had helped.’
‘He was just scared,’ I said. ‘I’m sure he’ll get over it.’
‘He is not strong,’ Tyson said. ‘He is not important any
more.’
He heaved a big sad sigh, then closed his eye. The metal
pieces fell out of his hand, still unassembled, and Tyson
began to snore.
I tried to fall asleep myself, but I couldn’t. Something
about getting chased by a large dragon lady with poison
swords made it really hard to relax. I picked up my bedroll
and dragged it over to where Annabeth was sitting, keeping
watch.
I sat down next to her.
911
‘You should sleep,’ she said.
‘Can’t. You doing all right?’
‘Sure. First day leading the quest. Just great.’
‘We’ll get there,’ I said. ‘We’ll ﬁnd the workshop before
Luke does.’
She brushed her hair out of her face. She had a smudge of
dirt on her chin, and I imagined what she must’ve looked
like when she was little, wandering around the country with
Thalia and Luke. Once she’d saved them from the mansion
of the evil Cyclops when she was only seven. Even when she
looked scared, like now, I knew she had a lot of guts.
‘I just wish the quest was logical,’ she complained. ‘I
mean, we’re travelling but we have no idea where we’ll end
up. How can you walk from New York to California in a day?’
‘Space isn’t the same in the maze.’
‘I know, I know. It’s just…’ She looked at me hesitantly.
‘Percy, I was kidding myself. All that planning and reading – I
don’t have a clue where we’re going.’
‘You’re doing great. Besides, we never know what we’re
doing. It always works out. Remember Circe’s island?’
She snorted. ‘You made a cute guinea pig.’
‘And Waterland, how you got us thrown oﬀ that ride?’
‘I got us thrown oﬀ? That was totally your fault!’
‘See? It’ll be ﬁne.’
She smiled, which I was glad to see, but the smile faded
quickly.
‘Percy, what did Hera mean when she said you knew the
way to get through the maze?’
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘Honestly.’
‘You’d tell me if you did?’
‘Sure. Maybe…’
‘Maybe what?’
‘Maybe if you told me the last line of the prophecy, it
would help.’
Annabeth shivered. ‘Not here. Not in the dark.’
‘What about the choice Janus mentioned? Hera said –’
912
‘Stop,’ Annabeth snapped. Then she took a shaky breath.
‘I’m sorry, Percy. I’m just stressed. But I don’t… I’ve got to
think about it.’
We sat in silence, listening to strange creaks and groans in
the maze, the echo of stones grinding together as tunnels
changed, grew and expanded. The dark made me think
about the visions I’d seen of Nico di Angelo, and suddenly I
realized something.
‘Nico is down here somewhere,’ I said. ‘That’s how he
disappeared from camp. He found the Labyrinth. Then he
found a path that led down even further – to the
Underworld. But now he’s back in the maze. He’s coming
after me.’
Annabeth was quiet for a long time. ‘Percy, I hope you’re
wrong. But if you’re right…’ She stared at the ﬂashlight
beam casting a dim circle on the stone wall. I had a feeling
she was thinking about her prophecy. I’d never seen her
look more tired.
‘How about I take ﬁrst watch?’ I said. ‘I’ll wake you if
anything happens.’
Annabeth looked like she wanted to protest, but she just
nodded, slumped onto her bedroll and closed her eyes.
When it was my turn to sleep, I dreamed I was back in the
old man’s Labyrinth prison.
It looked more like a workshop now. Tables were littered
with measuring instruments. A forge burned red hot in the
corner. The boy I’d seen in the last dream was stoking the
bellows, except he was taller now, almost my age. A weird
funnel device was attached to the forge’s chimney, trapping
the smoke and heat and channelling it through a pipe into
the ﬂoor, next to a big bronze manhole cover.
It was daytime. The sky above was blue, but the walls of
the maze cast deep shadows across the workshop. After
being in tunnels so long, I found it weird that part of the
913
Labyrinth could be open to the sky. Somehow that made the
maze seem like an even crueller place.
The old man looked sickly. He was terribly thin, his hands
raw and red from working. White hair covered his eyes, and
his tunic was smudged with grease. He was bent over a
table, working on some kind of long metal patchwork – like a
swathe of chain mail. He picked up a delicate curl of bronze
and ﬁtted it into place.
‘Done,’ he announced. ‘It’s done.’
He picked up his project. It was so beautiful my heart
leaped – metal wings constructed from thousands of
interlocking bronze feathers. There were two sets. One still
lay on the table. Daedalus stretched the frame, and the
wings expanded to seven and a half metres. Part of me
knew it could never ﬂy. It was too heavy, and there’d be no
way to get oﬀ the ground. But the craftsmanship was
amazing. Metal feathers caught the light and ﬂashed thirty
diﬀerent shades of gold.
The boy left the bellows and ran over to see. He grinned,
despite the fact that he was grimy and sweaty. ‘Father,
you’re a genius!’
The old man smiled. ‘Tell me something I don’t know,
Icarus. Now hurry. It will take at least an hour to attach
them. Come.’
‘You ﬁrst,’ Icarus said.
The old man protested, but Icarus insisted. ‘You made
them, Father. You should get the honour of wearing them
ﬁrst.’
The boy attached a leather harness to his father’s chest,
like climbing gear, with straps that ran from his shoulders to
his wrists. Then he began fastening on the wings, using a
metal canister that looked like an enormous hot-glue gun.
‘The wax compound should hold for several hours,’
Daedalus said nervously as his son worked. ‘But we must let
it set ﬁrst. And we would do well to avoid ﬂying too high or
too low. The sea would wet the wax seals –’
914
‘And the sun’s heat would loosen them,’ the boy ﬁnished.
‘Yes, Father. We’ve been through this a million times!’
‘One cannot be too careful.’
‘I have complete faith in your inventions, Father! No one
has ever been as smart as you.’
The old man’s eyes shone. It was obvious he loved his son
more than anything in the world. ‘Now I will do your wings,
and give mine a chance to set properly. Come!’
It was slow going. The old man’s hands fumbled with the
straps. He had a hard time keeping the wings in position
while he sealed them. His own metal wings seemed to
weigh him down, getting in his way while he tried to work.
‘Too slow,’ the old man muttered. ‘I am too slow.’
‘Take your time, Father,’ the boy said. ‘The guards aren’t
due until –’
BOOM!
The workshop doors shuddered. Daedalus had barred
them from the inside with a wooden brace, but still they
shook on their hinges.
‘Hurry!’ Icarus said.
BOOM! BOOM!
Something heavy was slamming into the doors. The brace
held, but a crack appeared in the left door.
Daedalus worked furiously. A drop of hot wax spilled onto
Icarus’s shoulder. The boy winced but did not cry out. When
his left wing was sealed to the straps, Daedalus began
working on the right.
‘We must have more time,’ Daedalus murmured. ‘They are
too early! We need more time for the seal to hold.’
‘It’ll be ﬁne,’ Icarus said as his father ﬁnished the right
wing. ‘Help me with the manhole –’
CRASH! The doors splintered and the head of a bronze
battering ram emerged through the breach. Axes cleared
the debris, and two armed guards entered the room,
followed by the king with the golden crown and the spear-
shaped beard.
915
‘Well, well,’ the king said with a cruel smile. ‘Going
somewhere?’
Daedalus and his son froze, their metal wings glimmering
on their backs.
‘We’re leaving, Minos,’ the old man said.
King Minos chuckled. ‘I was curious to see how far you’d
get on this little project before I dashed your hopes. I must
say I’m impressed.’
The king admired their wings.
‘You look like metal chickens,’ he decided. ‘Perhaps we
should pluck you and make a soup.’
The guards laughed stupidly.
‘Metal chickens,’ one repeated. ‘Soup.’
‘Shut up,’ the king said. Then he turned again to
Daedalus. ‘You let my daughter escape, old man. You drove
my wife to madness. You killed my monster and made me
the laughing stock of the Mediterranean. You will never
escape me!’
Icarus grabbed the wax gun and sprayed it at the King,
who stepped back in surprise. The guards rushed forward,
but each got a stream of hot wax in his face.
‘The vent!’ Icarus yelled to his father.
‘Get them!’ King Minos raged.
Together, the old man and his son prised open the
manhole cover, and a column of hot air blasted out of the
ground. The king watched, incredulous, as the inventor and
his son shot into the sky on their bronze wings, carried by
the updraught.
‘Shoot them!’ the king yelled, but his guards had brought
no bows. One threw his sword in desperation, but Daedalus
and Icarus were already out of reach. They wheeled above
the maze and the king’s palace, then zoomed across the
city of Knossos and out past the rocky shores of Crete.
Icarus laughed. ‘Free, Father! You did it.’
The boy spread his wings to their full limit and soared
away on the wind.
916
‘Wait!’ Daedalus called. ‘Be careful!’
But Icarus was already out over the open sea, heading
north and laughing for their good luck. He soared up and
scared an eagle out of its ﬂight path, then plummeted
towards the sea like he was born to ﬂy, pulling out of a
nosedive at the last second. His sandals skimmed the
waves.
‘Stop that!’ Daedalus called. But the wind carried his voice
away. His son was drunk on his own freedom.
The old man struggled to catch up, gliding clumsily after
his son.
They were miles from Crete, over deep sea, when Icarus
looked back and saw his father’s worried expression.
Icarus smiled. ‘Don’t worry, Father! You’re a genius! I trust
your handiwork –’
The ﬁrst metal feather shook loose from his wings and
ﬂuttered away. Then another. Icarus wobbled in midair.
Suddenly he was shedding bronze feathers, which twirled
away from him like a ﬂock of frightened birds.
‘Icarus!’ his father cried. ‘Glide! Extend the wings. Stay as
still as possible!’
But Icarus ﬂapped his arms, desperately trying to reassert
control.
The left wing went ﬁrst – ripping away from the straps.
‘Father!’ Icarus cried. And then he fell, the wings stripped
away until he was just a boy in a climbing harness and a
white tunic, his arms extended in a useless attempt to glide.
I woke with a start, feeling like I was falling. The corridor
was dark. In the constant moaning of the Labyrinth, I
thought I could hear the anguished cry of Daedalus calling
his son’s name, as Icarus, his only joy, plummeted towards
the sea, a hundred metres below.
There was no morning in the maze, but once everyone woke
up and had a fabulous breakfast of granola bars and juice
boxes, we kept travelling. I didn’t mention my dream.
917
Something about it had really freaked me out, and I didn’t
think the others needed to know that.
The old stone tunnels changed to earth with cedar beams,
like a gold mine or something. Annabeth started getting
agitated.
‘This isn’t right,’ she said. ‘It should still be stone.’
We came to a cave where stalactites hung low from the
ceiling. In the centre of the dirt ﬂoor was a rectangular pit,
like a grave.
Grover shivered. ‘It smells like the Underworld in here.’
Then I saw something glinting at the edge of the pit – a
foil wrapper. I shone my ﬂashlight into the hole and saw a
half-chewed cheeseburger ﬂoating in brown carbonated
muck.
‘Nico,’ I said. ‘He was summoning the dead again.’
Tyson whimpered. ‘Ghosts were here. I don’t like ghosts.’
‘We’ve got to ﬁnd him.’ I don’t know why, but standing at
the edge of that pit gave me a sense of urgency. Nico was
close. I could feel it. I couldn’t let him wander around down
here, alone except for the dead. I started to run.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth called.
I ducked into a tunnel and saw light up ahead. By the time
Annabeth, Tyson and Grover caught up with me, I was
staring at daylight streaming through a set of bars above
my head. We were under a steel grate made out of metal
pipes. I could see trees and blue sky.
‘Where are we?’ I wondered.
Then a shadow fell across the grate and a cow stared
down at me. It looked like a normal cow except it was a
weird colour – bright red, like a cherry. I didn’t know cows
came in that shade.
The cow mooed, put one hoof tentatively on the bars,
then backed away.
‘It’s a cattle grid,’ Grover said.
‘A what?’ I asked.
918
‘They put them at the gates of ranches so cows can’t get
out. They can’t walk on them.’
‘How do you know that?’
Grover huﬀed indignantly. ‘Believe me, if you had hooves,
you’d know about cattle grids. They’re annoying!’
I turned to Annabeth. ‘Didn’t Hera say something about a
ranch? We need to check it out. Nico might be up there.’
She hesitated. ‘All right. But how do we get out?’
Tyson solved that problem by hitting the cattle grid with
both hands. It popped oﬀ and went ﬂying out of sight. We
heard a CLANG! and a startled ‘Moo!’ Tyson blushed.
‘Sorry, cow!’ he called.
Then he gave us a boost out of the tunnel.
We were on a ranch, all right. Rolling hills stretched to the
horizon, dotted with oak trees and cacti and boulders. A
barbed-wire fence ran from the gate in either direction.
Cherry-coloured cows roamed around, grazing on clumps of
grass.
‘Red cattle,’ Annabeth said. ‘The cattle of the sun.’
‘What?’ I asked.
‘They’re sacred to Apollo.’
‘Holy cows?’
‘Exactly. But what are they doing –’
‘Wait,’ Grover said. ‘Listen.’
At ﬁrst everything seemed quiet… but then I heard it: the
distant baying of dogs. The sound got louder. Then the
underbrush rustled, and two dogs broke through. Except it
wasn’t two dogs. It was one dog with two heads. It looked
like a greyhound, long and snaky and sleek brown, but its
neck V’ed into two heads, both of them snapping and
snarling and generally not very glad to see us.
‘Bad Janus dog!’ Tyson cried.
‘Arf!’ Grover told it, and raised a hand in greeting.
The two-headed dog bared its teeth. I guess it wasn’t
impressed that Grover could speak animal. Then its master
919
lumbered out of the woods, and I realized the dog was the
least of our problems.
He was a huge guy with stark white hair, a straw cowboy
hat and a braided white beard – kind of like Father Time, if
Father Time went redneck and worked out. He was wearing
jeans, a Don’t Mess with Texas T-shirt, and a denim jacket
with the sleeves ripped oﬀ so you could see his muscles. On
his right bicep was a crossed-swords tattoo. He held a
wooden club about the size of a nuclear warhead, with
twenty-centimetre spikes bristling at the business end.
‘Heel, Orthus,’ he told the dog.
The dog growled at us once more, just to make his
feelings clear, then circled back to his master’s feet. The
man looked us up and down, keeping his club ready.
‘What’ve we got here?’ he asked. ‘Cattle rustlers?’
‘Just travellers,’ Annabeth said. ‘We’re on a quest.’
The man’s eye twitched. ‘Half-bloods, eh?’
I started to say, ‘How did you know –’
Annabeth put her hand on my arm. ‘I’m Annabeth,
daughter of Athena. This is Percy, son of Poseidon. Grover
the satyr. Tyson the -’
‘Cyclops,’ the man ﬁnished. ‘Yes, I can see that.’ He
glowered at me. ‘And I know half-bloods because I am one,
sonny. I’m Eurytion, the cowherd for this here ranch. Son of
Ares. You came through the Labyrinth like the other one, I
reckon.’
‘The other one?’ I asked. ‘You mean Nico di Angelo?’
‘We get a load of visitors from the Labyrinth,’ Eurytion
said darkly. ‘Not many ever leave.’
‘Wow,’ I said. ‘I feel welcome.’
The cowherd glanced behind him like someone was
watching. Then he lowered his voice. ‘I’m only going to say
this once, demigods. Get back in the maze now. Before it’s
too late.’
‘We’re not leaving,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘Not until we see
this other demigod. Please.’
920
Eurytion grunted. ‘Then you leave me no choice, missy.
I’ve got to take you to see the boss.’
I didn’t feel like we were hostages or anything. Eurytion
walked alongside us with his club across his shoulder.
Orthus the two-headed dog growled a lot and sniﬀed at
Grover’s legs and shot into the bushes once in a while to
chase animals, but Eurytion kept him more or less under
control.
We walked down a dirt path that seemed to go on forever.
It must’ve been close to forty degrees, which was a shock
after San Francisco. Heat shimmered oﬀ the ground. Insects
buzzed in the trees. Before we’d gone very far, I was
sweating like crazy. Flies swarmed us. Every so often we’d
see a pen full of red cows or even stranger animals. Once
we passed a corral where the fence was coated in asbestos.
Inside, a herd of ﬁre-breathing horses milled around. The
hay in their feeding trough was on ﬁre. The ground smoked
around their feet, but the horses seemed tame enough. One
big stallion looked at me and whinnied, columns of red
ﬂame billowing out of his nostrils. I wondered if it hurt his
sinuses.
‘What are they for?’ I asked.
Eurytion scowled. ‘We raise animals for lots of clients.
Apollo, Diomedes, and… others.’
‘Like who?’
‘No more questions.’
Finally we came out of the woods. Perched on a hill above
us was a big ranch house – all white stone and wood and big
windows.
‘It looks like a Frank Lloyd Wright!’ Annabeth said.
I guess she was talking about some architectural thing. To
me it just looked like the kind of place where a few
demigods could get into serious trouble. We hiked up the
hill.
921
‘Don’t break the rules,’ Eurytion warned as we walked up
the steps to the front porch. ‘No ﬁghting. No drawing
weapons. And don’t make any comments about the boss’s
appearance.’
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘What does he look like?’
Before Eurytion could reply, a new voice said, ‘Welcome to
the Triple G Ranch.’
The man on the porch had a normal head, which was a
relief. His face was weathered and brown from years in the
sun. He had slick black hair and a black pencil moustache
like villains have in old movies. He smiled at us, but the
smile wasn’t friendly; more amused, like Oh boy, more
people to torture!
I didn’t ponder that very long, though, because then I
noticed his body… or bodies. He had three of them. Now,
you’d think I would’ve got used to weird anatomy after
Janus and Briares, but this guy was three complete people.
His neck connected to the middle chest like normal, but he
had two more chests, one to either side, connected at the
shoulders, with a few centimetres in between. His left arm
grew out of his left chest, and the same on the right, so he
had two arms, but four armpits, if that makes any sense.
The chests all connected into one enormous torso, with two
regular but very beefy legs, and he wore the most oversized
pair of Levis I’d ever seen. His chests each wore a diﬀerent
colour Western shirt – green, yellow, red, like a stoplight. I
wondered how he dressed the middle chest, since it had no
arms.
The cowherd Eurytion nudged me. ‘Say hello to Mr
Geryon.’
‘Hi,’ I said. ‘Nice chests – uh, ranch! Nice ranch you have.’
Before the three-bodied man could respond, Nico di
Angelo came out of the glass doors onto the porch. ‘Geryon,
I won’t wait for –’
He froze when he saw us. Then he drew his sword. The
blade was just like I’d seen in my dream: short, sharp and
922
dark as midnight.
Geryon snarled when he saw it. ‘Put that away, Mr di
Angelo. I ain’t gonna have my guests killin’ each other.’
‘But that’s –’
‘Percy Jackson,’ Geryon supplied. ‘Annabeth Chase. And a
couple of their monster friends. Yes, I know.’
‘Monster friends?’ Grover said indignantly.
‘That man is wearing three shirts,’ Tyson said, like he was
just realizing this.
‘They let my sister die!’ Nico’s voice trembled with rage.
‘They’re here to kill me!’
‘Nico, we’re not here to kill you.’ I raised my hands. ‘What
happened to Bianca was –’
‘Don’t speak her name! You’re not worthy to even talk
about her!’
‘Wait a minute.’ Annabeth pointed at Geryon. ‘How do you
know our names?’
The three-bodied man winked. ‘I make it my business to
keep informed, darlin.’ Everybody pops into the ranch from
time to time. Everyone needs something from ole Geryon.
Now, Mr di Angelo, put that ugly sword away before I have
Eurytion take it from you.’
Eurytion sighed, but he hefted his spiked club. At his feet,
Orthus growled.
Nico hesitated. He looked thinner and paler than he had in
the Iris-messages. I wondered if he’d eaten in the last week.
His black clothes were dusty from travelling in the
Labyrinth, and his dark eyes were full of hate. He was too
young to look so angry. I still remembered him as the
cheerful little kid who played with Mythomagic cards.
Reluctantly, he sheathed his sword. ‘If you come near me,
Percy, I’ll summon help. You don’t want to meet my helpers,
I promise.’
‘I believe you,’ I said.
Geryon patted Nico’s shoulder. ‘There, we’ve all made
nice. Now come along, folks. I want to give you a tour of the
923
ranch.’
Geryon had a trolley thing – like one of those kiddie trains
that take you around zoos. It was painted black and white in
a cowhide pattern. The driver’s car had a set of longhorns
stuck to the hood, and the horn sounded like a cowbell.1
ﬁgured maybe this was how he tortured people. He
embarrassed them to death, riding around in the moo-
mobile.
Nico sat in the very back, probably so he could keep an
eye on us. Eurytion crawled in next to him with his spiked
club and pulled his cowboy hat over his eyes like he was
going to take a nap. Orthus jumped in the front seat next to
Geryon and began barking happily in two-part harmony.
Annabeth, Tyson, Grover and I took the middle two cars.
‘We have a huge operation!’ Geryon boasted as the moo-
mobile lurched forward. ‘Horses and cattle mostly, but all
sorts of exotic varieties, too.’
We came over a hill, and Annabeth gasped. ‘Hippalek-
tryons? I thought they were extinct!’
At the bottom of the hill was a fenced-in pasture with a
dozen of the weirdest animals I’d ever seen. Each had the
front half of a horse and the back half of a rooster. Their rear
feet were huge yellow claws. They had feathery tails and
red wings. As I watched, two of them got in a ﬁght over a
pile of seed. They reared up on their back legs and whinnied
and ﬂapped their wings at each other until the smaller one
galloped away, its rear bird-legs putting a little hop in its
step.
‘Rooster ponies,’ Tyson said in amazement. ‘Do they lay
eggs?’
‘Once a year!’ Geryon grinned in the rearview mirror. ‘Very
much in demand for omelettes!’
‘That’s horrible!’ Annabeth said. ‘They must be an
endangered species!’
924
Geryon waved his hand. ‘Gold is gold, darling. And you
haven’t tasted the omelettes.’
‘That’s not right,’ Grover murmured, but Geryon just kept
narrating the tour.
‘Now, over here,’ he said, ‘we have our ﬁre-breathing
horses, which you may have seen on your way in. They’re
bred for war, naturally.’
‘What war?’ I asked.
Geryon grinned slyly. ‘Oh, whichever one comes along.
And over yonder, of course, are our prize red cows.’
Sure enough, hundreds of the cherry-coloured cattle were
grazing the side of a hill.
‘So many,’ Grover said.
‘Yes, well, Apollo is too busy to see to them,’ Geryon
explained, ‘so he subcontracts to us. We breed them
vigorously because there’s such a demand.’
‘For what?’ I asked.
Geryon raised an eyebrow. ‘Meat, of course! Armies have
to eat.’
‘You kill the sacred cows of the sun god for hamburger
meat?’ Grover said. ‘That’s against the ancient laws!’
‘Oh, don’t get so worked up, satyr. They’re just animals.’
‘Just animals!’
‘Yes, and if Apollo cared, I’m sure he would tell us.’
‘If he knew,’ I muttered.
Nico sat forward. ‘I don’t care about any of this, Geryon.
We had business to discuss, and this wasn’t it!’
‘All in good time, Mr di Angelo. Look over here: some of
my exotic game.’
The next ﬁeld was ringed in barbed wire. The whole area
was crawling with giant scorpions.
‘Triple G Ranch,’ I said, suddenly remembering. ‘Your mark
was on the crates at camp. Quintus got his scorpions from
you.’
‘Quintus…,’ Geryon mused. ‘Short grey hair, muscular,
swordsman?’
925
‘Yeah.’
‘Never heard of him,’ Geryon said. ‘Now, over here are my
prize stables! You must see them.’
I didn’t need to see them, because as soon as we got
within three hundred metres I started to smell them. Near
the banks of a green river was a horse corral the size of a
football ﬁeld. Stables lined one side of it. About a hundred
horses were milling around in the muck – and when I say
muck, I mean horse poop. It was the most disgusting thing
I’d ever seen, like a poop blizzard had come through and
dumped a metre-deep pile of the stuﬀ overnight. The horses
were really gross from wading through it, and the stables
were just as bad. It reeked like you would not believe –
worse than the garbage boats on the East River.
Even Nico gagged. ‘What is that?’
‘My stables!’ Geryon said. ‘Well, actually they belong to
Aegeas, but we watch over them for a small monthly fee.
Aren’t they lovely?’
‘They’re disgusting!’ Annabeth said.
‘Lots of poop,’ Tyson observed.
‘How can you keep animals like that?’ Grover cried.
‘Y’all gettin’ on my nerves,’ Geryon said. ‘These are ﬂesh-
eating horses, see? They like these conditions.’
‘Plus, you’re too cheap to have them cleaned,’ Eurytion
mumbled from under his hat.
‘Quiet!’ Geryon snapped. ‘All right, perhaps the stables
are a bit challenging to clean. Perhaps they do make me
nauseous when the wind blows the wrong way. But so what?
My clients still pay me well.’
‘What clients?’ I demanded.
‘Oh, you’d be surprised how many people will pay for a
ﬂesh-eating horse. They make great garbage disposals.
Wonderful way to terrify your enemies. Great at birthday
parties! We rent them out all the time.
‘You’re a monster,’ Annabeth decided.
926
Geryon stopped the moo-mobile and turned to look at her.
‘What gave it away? Was it the three bodies?’
‘You have to let these animals go,’ Grover said. ‘It’s not
right!’
‘And the clients you keep talking about,’ Annabeth said.
‘You work for Kronos, don’t you? You’re supplying his army
with horses, food, whatever they need.’
Geryon shrugged, which was very weird since he had
three sets of shoulders. It looked like he was doing the wave
all by himself. ‘I work for anyone with gold, young lady. I’m a
businessman. And I sell them anything I have to oﬀer.’
He climbed out of the moo-mobile and strolled towards
the stables as if enjoying the fresh air. It would’ve been a
nice view, with the river and the trees and hills and all,
except for the quagmire of horse muck.
Nico got out of the back car and stormed over to Geryon.
The cowherd Eurytion wasn’t as sleepy as he looked. He
hefted his club and walked after Nico.
‘I came here for business, Geryon,’ Nico said. ‘And you
haven’t answered me.’
‘Mmm.’ Geryon examined a cactus. His left arm reached
over and scratched his middle chest. ‘Yes, you’ll get a deal,
all right.’
‘My ghost told me you could help. He said you could guide
us to the soul we need.’
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘I thought I was the soul you
wanted.’
Nico looked at me like I was crazy. ‘You? Why would I want
you? Bianca’s soul is worth a thousand of yours! Now, can
you help me, Geryon, or not?’
‘Oh, I imagine I could,’ the rancher said. ‘Your ghost
friend, by the way, where is he?’
Nico looked uneasy. ‘He can’t form in broad daylight. It’s
hard for him. But he’s around somewhere.’
Geryon smiled. ‘I’m sure. Minos likes to disappear when
things get… diﬃcult.’
927
‘Minos?’ I remembered the man I’d seen in my dreams,
with the golden crown, the pointed beard, and the cruel
eyes. ‘You mean that evil king? That’s the ghost who’s been
giving you advice?’
‘It’s none of your business, Percy!’ Nico turned back to
Geryon. ‘And what do you mean about things getting
diﬃcult?’
The three-bodied man sighed. ‘Well, you see, Nico – can I
call you Nico?’
‘No.’
‘You see, Nico, Luke Castellan is oﬀering very good money
for half-bloods. Especially powerful half-bloods. And I’m sure
when he learns your little secret, who you really are, he’ll
pay very, very well indeed.’
Nico drew his sword, but Eurytion knocked it out of his
hand. Before I could get up, Orthus pounced on my chest
and growled, his faces barely centimetres away from mine.
‘I would stay in the car, all of you,’ Geryon warned. ‘Or
Orthus will tear Mr Jackson’s throat out. Now, Eurytion, if
you would be so kind, secure Nico.’
The cowherd spat into the grass. ‘Do I have to?’
‘Yes, you fool!’
Eurytion looked bored, but he wrapped one huge arm
around Nico and lifted him up like a wrestler.
‘Pick up the sword, too,’ Geryon said with distaste.
‘There’s nothing I hate worse than Stygian iron.’
Eurytion picked up the sword, careful not to touch the
blade.
‘Now,’ Geryon said cheerfully, ‘we’ve had the tour. Let’s
go back to the lodge, have some lunch, and send an Iris-
message to our friends in the Titan army.’
‘You ﬁend!’ Annabeth cried.
Geryon smiled at her. ‘Don’t worry, my dear. Once I’ve
delivered Mr di Angelo, you and your party can go. I don’t
interfere with quests. Besides, I’ve been paid well to give
928
you safe passage, which does not, I’m afraid, include Mr di
Angelo.’
‘Paid by whom?’ Annabeth said. ‘What do you mean?’
‘Never you mind, darlin.’ Let’s be oﬀ, shall we?’
‘Wait!’ I said, and Orthus growled. I stayed perfectly still
so he wouldn’t tear my throat out. ‘Geryon, you said you’re
a businessman. Make me a deal.’
Geryon narrowed his eyes. ‘What sort of deal? Do you
have gold?’
‘I’ve got something better. Barter.’
‘But, Mr Jackson, you’ve got nothing.’
‘You could have him clean the stables,’ Eurytion
suggested innocently.
‘I’ll do it!’ I said. ‘If I fail, you get all of us. You can trade us
all to Luke for gold.’
‘Assuming the horses don’t eat you,’ Geryon observed.
‘Either way, you get my friends,’ I said. ‘But, if I succeed,
you’ve got to let all of us go, including Nico.’
‘No!’ Nico screamed. ‘Don’t do me any favours, Percy. I
don’t want your help!’
Geryon chuckled. ‘Percy Jackson, those stables haven’t
been cleaned in a thousand years… though it’s true I might
be able to sell more stable space if all that poop was cleared
away.’
‘So what have you got to lose?’
The rancher hesitated. ‘All right, I’ll accept your oﬀer, but
you have to get it done by sunset. If you fail, your friends
get sold, and I get rich.’
‘Deal.’
He nodded. ‘I’m going to take your friends with me, back
to the lodge. We’ll wait for you there.’
Eurytion gave me a funny look. It might have been
sympathy. He whistled, and the dog jumped oﬀ me and onto
Annabeth’s lap. She yelped. I knew Tyson and Grover would
never try anything as long as Annabeth was a hostage.
I got out of the car and locked eyes with her.
929
‘I hope you know what you’re doing,’ she said quietly.
‘I hope so, too.’
Geryon got behind the driver’s wheel. Eurytion hauled
Nico into the back seat.
‘Sunset,’ Geryon reminded me. ‘No later.’
He laughed at me once more, sounded his cowbell horn,
and the moo-mobile rumbled oﬀ down the trail.
930
9    I Scoop Poop
 
I lost hope when I saw the horses’ teeth.
As I got closer to the fence I held my shirt over my nose to
block the smell. One stallion waded through the muck and
whinnied angrily at me. He bared his teeth, which were
pointed like a bear’s.
I tried to talk to him in my mind. I can do that with most
horses.
Hi, I told him. I’m going to clean your stables. Won’t that
be great?
Yes! The horse said. Come inside! Eat you! Tasty half-
blood!
But I’m Poseidon’s son, I protested. He created horses.
Usually this gets me VIP treatment in the equestrian
world, but not this time.
Yes! The horse agreed enthusiastically. Poseidon can come
in, too! We will eat you both! Seafood!
Seafood!The other horses chimed in as they waded
through the ﬁeld. Flies were buzzing everywhere, and the
heat of the day didn’t make the smell any better. I’d had
some idea that I could do this challenge, because I
remembered how Hercules had done it. He’d channelled a
river into the stables and cleaned them out that way. I
ﬁgured I could maybe control the water. But if I couldn’t get
close to the horses without getting eaten, that was a
problem. And the river was downhill from the stables, a lot
further away than I’d realized, almost a kilometre. The
problem of the poop looked a lot bigger up close. I picked up
931
a rusted shovel and experimentally scooped some away
from the fence line. Great. Only four billion shovelfuls to go.
The sun was already sinking. I had a few hours at best. I
decided the river was my only hope. At least it would be
easier to think at the riverside than it was here. I set oﬀ
downhill.
When I got to the river, I found a girl waiting for me. She
was wearing jeans and a green T-shirt and her long brown
hair was braided with river grass. She had a stern look on
her face. Her arms were crossed.
‘Oh no you don’t,’ she said.
I stared at her. ‘Are you a naiad?’
She rolled her eyes. ‘Of course!’
‘But you speak English. And you’re out of the water.’
‘What, you don’t think we can act human if we want to?’
I’d never thought about it. I felt kind of stupid, though,
because I’d seen plenty of naiads at camp, and they’d never
done much more than giggle and wave at me from the
bottom of the canoe lake.
‘Look,’ I said, ‘I just came to ask –’
‘I know who you are,’ she said. ‘And I know what you
want. And the answer is no! I’m not going to have my river
used again to clean that ﬁlthy stable.’
‘But –’
‘Oh, save it, sea boy. You ocean-god types always think
you’re soooo much more important than some little river,
don’t you? Well let me tell you, this naiad is not going to be
pushed around just because your daddy is Poseidon. This is
freshwater territory, mister. The last guy who asked me this
favour – oh, he was way better-looking than you, by the way
– he convinced me, and that was the worst mistake I’ve ever
made! Do you have any idea what all that horse manure
does to my ecosystem? Do I look like a sewage-treatment
plant to you? My ﬁsh will die. I’ll never get the muck out of
my plants. I’ll be sick for years. NO THANK YOU!’
932
The way she talked reminded me of my mortal friend,
Rachel Elizabeth Dare – kind of like she was punching me
with words. I couldn’t blame the naiad. Now that I thought
about it, I’d be pretty mad if somebody dumped two
thousand tons of manure in my home. But still…
‘My friends are in danger,’ I told her.
‘Well, that’s too bad! But it’s not my problem. And you’re
not going to ruin my river.’
She looked like she was ready for a ﬁght. Her ﬁsts were
balled, but I thought I heard a little quaver in her voice.
Suddenly I realized that, despite her angry attitude, she was
afraid of me. She probably thought I was going to ﬁght her
for control of the river, and she was worried she would lose.
The thought made me sad. I felt like a bully, a son of
Poseidon throwing his weight around.
I sat down on a tree stump. ‘Okay, you win.’
The naiad looked surprised. ‘Really?’
‘I’m not going to ﬁght you. It’s your river.’
She relaxed her shoulders. ‘Oh. Oh, good. I mean – good
thing for you!’
‘But my friends and I are going to get sold to the Titans if I
don’t clean those stables by sunset. And I don’t know how.’
The river gurgled along cheerfully. A snake slid through
the water and ducked its head under. Finally the naiad
sighed.
‘I’ll tell you a secret, son of the sea god. Scoop up some
dirt.’
‘What?’
‘You heard me.’
I crouched down and scooped up a handful of Texas dirt. It
was dry and black and spotted with tiny clumps of white
rock… No, something besides rock.
‘Those are shells,’ the naiad said. ‘Petriﬁed seashells.
Millions of years ago, even before the time of the gods,
when only Gaia and Ouranos reigned, this land was under
water. It was part of the sea.’
933
Suddenly I saw what she meant. There were little pieces
of ancient sea urchins in my hand, mollusc shells. Even the
limestone rocks had impressions of seashells embedded in
them.
‘Okay,’ I said. ‘What good does that do me?’
‘You’re not so diﬀerent from me, demigod. Even when I’m
out of the water, the water is within me. It is my life source.’
She stepped back, put her feet in the river, and smiled. ‘I
hope you ﬁnd a way to rescue your friends.’
And with that she turned to liquid and melted into the
river.
The sun was touching the hills when I got back to the
stables. Somebody must’ve come by and fed the horses,
because they were tearing into huge animal carcasses. I
couldn’t tell what kind of animal, and I really didn’t want to
know. If it was possible for the stables to get more
disgusting, ﬁfty horses tearing into raw meat did it.
Seafood! one thought when he saw me. Come in! We’re
still hungry.
What was I supposed to do? I couldn’t use the river. And
the fact that this place had been underwater a million years
ago didn’t exactly help me now. I looked at the little calciﬁed
seashell in my palm, then at the huge mountain of dung.
Frustrated, I threw the shell into the poop. I was about to
turn my back on the horses when I heard a sound.
PFFFFFFT! Like a balloon with a leak.
I looked down where I had thrown the shell. A tiny spout of
water was shooting out of the muck.
‘No way,’ I muttered.
Hesitantly, I stepped towards the fence. ‘Get bigger,’ I told
the waterspout.
SPOOOOOOOSH!
Water shot a metre into the air and kept bubbling. It was
impossible, but there it was. A couple of horses came over
934
to check it out. One put his mouth to the spring and
recoiled.
Yuck! he said. Salty!
It was seawater in the middle of a Texas ranch. I scooped
up another handful of dirt and picked out the shell fossils. I
didn’t really know what I was doing, but I ran around the
length of the stable, throwing shells into the dung piles.
Everywhere a shell hit, a saltwater spring erupted.
Stop! The horses cried. Meat is good! Baths are bad!
Then I noticed the water wasn’t running out of the stables
or ﬂowing downhill like water normally would. It simply
bubbled around each spring and sank into the ground,
taking the dung with it. The horse poop dissolved in the
saltwater, leaving regular old wet earth.
‘More!’ I yelled.
There was a tugging sensation in my gut, and the
waterspouts exploded like the world’s largest carwash. Salt
water shot six metres into the air. The horses went crazy,
running back and forth as the geysers sprayed them from all
directions. Mountains of poop began to melt like ice.
The tugging sensation became more intense, painful
even, but there was something exhilarating about seeing all
that salt water. I had made this. I had brought the ocean to
this hillside.
Stop, lord! a horse cried. Stop, please!
Water was sloshing everywhere now. The horses were
drenched, and some were panicking and slipping in the
mud. The poop was completely gone, tons of it just
dissolved into the earth, and the water was now starting to
pool, trickling out of the stable, making a hundred little
streams down towards the river.
‘Stop,’ I told the water.
Nothing happened. The pain in my gut was building. If I
didn’t shut oﬀ the geysers soon, the salt water would run
into the river and poison the ﬁsh and plants.
935
‘Stop!’ I concentrated all my might on shutting oﬀ the
force of the sea.
Suddenly the geysers shut down. I collapsed to my knees,
exhausted. In front of me was a shiny, clean horse stable, a
ﬁeld of wet, salty mud and ﬁfty horses that had been
scoured so thoroughly, their coats gleamed. Even the meat
scraps between their teeth had been washed out.
We won’t eat you! The horses wailed. Please, lord! No
more salty baths!
‘On one condition,’ I said. ‘You only eat the food your
handlers give you from now on. Not people. Or I’ll be back
with more seashells!’
The horses whinnied and made me a whole lot of
promises that they would be good ﬂesh-eating horses from
now on, but I didn’t stick around to chat. The sun was going
down. I turned and ran full speed towards the ranch house.
I smelled barbecue before I reached the house, and that
made me madder than ever, because I really love barbecue.
The deck was set up for a party. Streamers and balloons
decorated the railing. Geryon was ﬂipping burgers on a
huge barbecue cooker made from an oil drum. Eurytion
lounged at a picnic table, picking his ﬁngernails with a knife.
The two-headed dog sniﬀed the ribs and burgers that were
frying on the grill. And then I saw my friends: Tyson, Grover,
Annabeth and Nico all tossed in a corner, tied up like rodeo
animals, with their ankles and wrists roped together and
their mouths gagged.
‘Let them go!’ I yelled, still out of breath from running up
the steps. ‘I cleaned the stables!’
Geryon turned. He wore an apron on each chest, with one
word on each, so together they spelled out: KISS – THE –
CHEF. ‘Did you, now? How’d you manage it?’
I was pretty impatient, but I told him.
He nodded appreciatively. ‘Very ingenious. It would’ve
been better if you’d poisoned that pesky naiad, but no
936
matter.’
‘Let my friends go,’ I said. ‘We had a deal.’
‘Ah, I’ve been thinking about that. The problem is, if I let
them go, I don’t get paid.’
‘You promised!’
Geryon made a tsk~tsk noise. ‘But did you make me
swear on the River Styx? No you didn’t. So it’s not binding.
When you’re conducting business, sonny, you should always
get a binding oath.’
I drew my sword. Orthus growled. One head leaned down
next to Grover’s ear and bared its fangs.
‘Eurytion,’ Geryon said, ‘the boy is starting to annoy me.
Kill nim.’
Eurytion studied me. I didn’t like my odds against him and
that huge club.
‘Kill him yourself,’ Eurytion said.
Geryon raised his eyebrows. ‘Excuse me?’
‘You heard me,’ Eurytion grumbled. ‘You keep sending me
out to do your dirty work. You pick ﬁghts for no good reason,
and I’m tired of dying for you. You want to ﬁght the kid, do it
yourself.’
It was the most un-Ares-like thing I’d ever heard a son of
Ares say.
Geryon threw down his spatula. ‘You dare defy me? I
should ﬁre you right now!’
‘And who’d take care of your cattle? Orthus, heel.’
The dog immediately stopped growling at Grover and
came to sit by the cowherd’s feet.
‘Fine!’ Geryon snarled. ‘I’ll deal with you later, after the
boy is dead!’
He picked up two carving knives and threw them at me. I
deﬂected one with my sword. The other impaled itself in the
picnic table, a millimetre from Eurytion’s hand.
I went on the attack. Geryon parried my ﬁrst strike with a
pair of red-hot tongs and lunged at my face with a barbecue
937
fork. I got inside his next thrust and stabbed him right
through the middle chest.
‘Aghhh!’ He crumpled to his knees. I waited for him to
disintegrate, the way monsters usually do. But instead he
just grimaced and began to stand up. The bleeding slice
through his chef’s apron started to heal.
‘Nice try, sonny,’ he said. ‘Thing is, I have three hearts.
The perfect backup system.’
He 
tipped 
over 
the 
barbecue, 
and 
coals 
spilled
everywhere. One landed next to Annabeth’s face, and she
let out a muﬄed scream. Tyson strained against his bonds,
but even his strength wasn’t enough to break them. I had to
end this ﬁght before my friends got hurt.
I jabbed Geryon in the left chest, but he only laughed. I
stuck him in the right stomach. No good. I might as well
have been sticking a sword in a teddy bear for all the
reaction he showed.
Three hearts. The perfect backup system. Stabbing one at
a time was no good…
I ran into the house.
‘Coward!’ he cried. ‘Come back and die right!’
The living-room walls were decorated with a bunch of
gruesome hunting trophies – stuﬀed deer and dragon heads,
a gun case, a sword display and a bow with a quiver.
Geryon threw his barbecue fork, and it thudded into the
wall right next to my head. He drew two swords from the
wall display. ‘Your head’s gonna go right there, Jackson!
Next to the grizzly bear!’
I had a crazy idea. I dropped Riptide and grabbed the bow
oﬀ the wall.
I was the worst archery shot in the world. I couldn’t hit the
targets at camp, much less a bull’s eye. But I had no choice.
I couldn’t win this ﬁght with a sword. I prayed to Artemis
and Apollo, the twin archers, hoping they might take pity on
me for once. Please, guys. Just one shot. Please.
I notched an arrow.
938
Geryon laughed. ‘You fool! One arrow is no better than
one sword.’
He raised his swords and charged. I dived sideways.
Before he could turn, I shot my arrow into the side of his
right chest. I heard THUMP, THUMP, THUMP, as the arrow
passed clean through each of his chests and ﬂew out his left
side, embedding itself in the forehead of the grizzly bear
trophy.
Geryon dropped his swords. He turned and stared at me.
‘You can’t shoot. They told me you couldn’t…’
His face turned a sickly shade of green. He collapsed to
his knees and began crumbling into sand, until all that was
left were three cooking aprons and an oversized pair of
cowboy boots.
I got my friends untied. Eurytion didn’t try to stop me. Then
I stoked up the barbecue and threw the food into the ﬂames
as a burnt oﬀering to Artemis and Apollo.
‘Thanks, guys,’ I said. ‘I owe you one.’
The sky thundered in the distance, so I ﬁgured maybe the
burgers smelled okay.
‘Yay for Percy!’ Tyson said.
‘Can we tie up this cowherd now?’ Nico asked.
‘Yeah!’ Grover agreed. ‘And that dog almost killed me!’
I looked at Eurytion, who was still sitting, relaxed, at the
picnic table. Orthus had both his heads on the cowherd’s
knees.
‘How long will it take Geryon to re-form?’ I asked him.
Eurytion shrugged. ‘Hundred years? He’s not one of those
fast re-formers, thank the gods. You’ve done me a favour.’
‘You said you’d died for him before,’ I remembered. ‘How?’
‘I’ve worked for that creep for thousands of years. Started
as a regular half-blood, but I chose immortality when my
dad oﬀered it. Worst mistake I ever made. Now I’m stuck
here at this ranch. I can’t leave. I can’t quit. I just tend the
cows and ﬁght Geryon’s ﬁghts. We’re kinda tied together.’
939
‘Maybe you can change things,’ I said.
Eurytion narrowed his eyes. ‘How?’
‘Be nice to the animals. Take care of them. Stop selling
them for food. And stop dealing with the Titans.’
Eurytion thought about that. ‘That’d be all right.’
‘Get the animals on your side, and they’ll help you. Once
Geryon gets back, maybe he’ll be working for you this time.’
Eurytion grinned. ‘Now that I could live with.’
‘You won’t try to stop us leaving?’
‘Shoot, no.’
Annabeth rubbed her bruised wrists. She was still looking
at Eurytion suspiciously. ‘Your boss said that somebody paid
for our safe passage. Who?’
The cowherd shrugged. ‘Maybe he was just saying that to
fool you.’
‘What about the Titans?’ I asked. ‘Did you Iris-message
them about Nico yet?’
‘Nope. Geryon was waiting until after the barbecue. They
don’t know anything about him.’
Nico was glaring at me. I wasn’t sure what to do about
him. I doubted he would agree to come with us. On the
other hand, I couldn’t just let him roam around on his own.
‘You could stay here until we’re done with our quest,’ I told
him. ‘It would be safe.’
‘Safe?’ Nico said. ‘What do you care if I’m safe? You got
my sister killed!’
‘Nico,’ Annabeth said, ‘that wasn’t Percy’s fault. And
Geryon wasn’t lying about Kronos wanting to capture you. If
he knew who you were, he’d do anything to get you on his
side.’
‘I’m not on anyone’s side. And I’m not afraid!’
‘You should be,’ Annabeth said. ‘Your sister wouldn’t want
–’
‘If you cared for my sister, you’d help me bring her back!’
‘A soul for a soul?’ I said.
‘Yes!’
940
‘But if you didn’t want my soul –’
‘I’m not explaining anything to you!’ He blinked tears out
of his eyes. ‘And I will bring her back.’
‘Bianca wouldn’t want to be brought back,’ I said. ‘Not like
that.’
‘You didn’t know her!’ he shouted. ‘How do you know what
she’d want?’
I stared at the ﬂames in the barbecue pit. I thought about
the line in Annabeth’s prophecy: You shall rise or fall by the
ghost king’s hand. That had to be Minos, and I had to
convince Nico not to listen to him. ‘Let’s ask Bianca.’
The sky seemed to grow darker all of a sudden.
‘I’ve tried,’ Nico said miserably. ‘She won’t answer.’
‘Try again. I’ve got a feeling she’ll answer, with me here.’
‘Why would she?’
‘Because she’s been sending me Iris-messages,’ I said,
suddenly sure of it. ‘She’s been trying to warn me what
you’re up to, so I can protect you.’
Nico shook his head. ‘That’s impossible.’
‘One way to ﬁnd out. You said you’re not afraid.’ I turned
to Eurytion. ‘We’re going to need a pit, like a grave. And
food and drinks.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth warned. ‘I don’t think this is a good –’
‘All right,’ Nico said. ‘I’ll try.’
Eurytion scratched his beard. ‘There’s a hole dug out back
for a septic tank. We could use that. Cyclops boy, fetch my
ice chest from the kitchen. I hope the dead like root beer.’
941
10    We Play The Game Show of Death
 
We did our summons after dark, at a seven-metre-long pit in
front of the septic tank. The tank was bright yellow, with a
smiley face and red words painted on the side: HAPPY
FLUSH DISPOSAL CO. It didn’t quite go with the mood of
summoning the dead.
The moon was full. Silver clouds drifted across the sky.
‘Minos should be here by now,’ Nico said, frowning. ‘It’s
full dark.’
‘Maybe he got lost,’ I said hopefully.
Nico poured root beer and tossed barbecue into the pit,
then began chanting in Ancient Greek. Immediately, the
bugs in the woods stopped chirping. In my pocket, the
Stygian ice dog whistle started to grow colder, freezing
against the side of my leg.
‘Make him stop,’ Tyson whispered to me.
Part of me agreed. This was unnatural. The night air felt
cold and menacing. But before I could say anything, the ﬁrst
spirits appeared. Sulphurous mist seeped out of the ground.
Shadows thickened into human forms. One blue shade
drifted to the edge of the pit and knelt to drink.
‘Stop him!’ Nico said, momentarily breaking his chant.
‘Only Bianca may drink!’
I drew Riptide. The ghosts retreated with a collective hiss
at the sight of my celestial bronze blade. But it was too late
to stop the ﬁrst spirit. He had already solidiﬁed into the
shape of a bearded man in white robes. A circlet of gold
wreathed his head, and even in death his eyes were alive
with malice.
942
‘Minos!’ Nico said. ‘What are you doing?’
‘My apologies, master,’ the ghost said, though he didn’t
sound very sorry. ‘The sacriﬁce smelled so good, I couldn’t
resist.’ He examined his own hands and smiled. ‘It is good to
see myself again. Almost in solid form –’
‘You are disrupting the ritual!’ Nico protested. ‘Get –’
The spirits of the dead began shimmering dangerously
bright, and Nico had to take up the chant again to keep
them at bay.
‘Yes, quite right, master,’ Minos said with amusement.
‘You keep chanting. I’ve only come to protect you from these
liars who would deceive you.’
He turned to me as if I were some kind of cockroach.
‘Percy Jackson… my, my. The sons of Poseidon haven’t
improved over the centuries, have they?’
I wanted to punch him, but I ﬁgured my ﬁst would go right
through his face. ‘We’re looking for Bianca di Angelo,’ I said.
‘Get lost.’
The ghost chuckled. ‘I understand you once killed my
Minotaur with your bare hands. But worse things await you
in the maze. Do you really believe Daedalus will help you?’
The other spirits stirred in agitation. Annabeth drew her
knife and helped me keep them away from the pit. Grover
got so nervous he clung to Tyson’s shoulder.
‘Daedalus cares nothing for you, half-bloods,’ Minos
warned. ‘You can’t trust him. He is old beyond counting, and
crafty. He is bitter from the guilt of murder and is cursed by
the gods.’
‘The guilt of murder?’ I asked. ‘Who did he kill?’
‘Do not change the subject!’ the ghost growled. ‘You are
hindering Nico. You try to persuade him to give up his goal. I
would make him a lord!’
‘Enough, Minos,’ Nico commanded.
The ghost sneered. ‘Master, these are your enemies. You
must not listen to them! Let me protect you. I will turn their
minds to madness, as I did the others.’
943
‘The 
others?’ 
Annabeth 
gasped. 
‘You 
mean 
Chris
Rodriguez? That was you?’
‘The maze is my property,’ the ghost said, ‘not
Daedalus’s! Those who intrude deserve madness.’
‘Begone, Minos!’ Nico demanded. ‘I want to see my
sister!’
The ghost bit back his rage. ‘As you wish, master. But I
warn you. You cannot trust these heroes.’
With that, he faded into mist.
Other spirits rushed forward, but Annabeth and I kept
them back.
‘Bianca, appear!’ Nico intoned. He started chanting faster,
and the spirits shifted restlessly.
‘Any time now,’ Grover muttered.
Then a silvery light ﬂickered in the trees – a spirit that
seemed brighter and stronger than the others. It came
closer, and something told me to let it pass. It knelt to drink
at the pit. When it arose, it was the ghostly form of Bianca di
Angelo.
Nico’s chanting faltered. I lowered my sword. The other
spirits started to crowd forward, but Bianca raised her arms
and they retreated into the woods.
‘Hello, Percy,’ she said.
She looked the same as she had in life: a green cap set
sideways on her thick black hair, dark eyes and olive skin
like her brother. She wore jeans and a silvery jacket, the
outﬁt of a Hunter of Artemis. A bow was slung over her
shoulder. She smiled faintly, and her whole form ﬂickered.
‘Bianca,’ I said. My voice was thick. I’d felt guilty about her
death for a long time, but seeing her in front of me was ﬁve
times as bad, like her death was fresh and new. I
remembered searching through the wreckage of the giant
bronze warrior she’d sacriﬁced her life to defeat, and not
ﬁnding any sign of her.
‘I’m so sorry,’ I said.
944
‘You have nothing to apologize for, Percy. I made my own
choice. I don’t regret it.’
‘Bianca!’ Nico stumbled forward like he was just coming
out of a daze.
She turned towards her brother. Her expression was sad,
as if she’d been dreading this moment. ‘Hello, Nico. You’ve
got so tall.’
‘Why didn’t you answer me sooner?’ he cried. ‘I’ve been
trying for months!’
‘I was hoping you would give up.’
‘Give up?’ He sounded heartbroken. ‘How can you say
that? I’m trying to save you!’
‘You can’t, Nico. Don’t do this. Percy is right.’
‘No! He let you die! He’s not your friend.’
Bianca stretched out a hand as if to touch her brother’s
face, but she was made of mist. Her hand evaporated as it
got close to living skin.
‘You must listen to me,’ she said. ‘Holding grudges is
dangerous for a child of Hades. It is our fatal ﬂaw. You have
to forgive. You have to promise me this.’
‘I can’t. Never.’
‘Percy has been worried about you, Nico. He can help. I let
him see what you were up to, hoping he would ﬁnd you.’
‘So it was you,’ I said. ‘You sent those Iris-messages.’
Bianca nodded.
‘Why are you helping him and not me?’ Nico screamed.
‘It’s not fair!’
‘You are close to the truth now,’ Bianca told him. ‘It’s not
Percy you’re mad at, Nico. It’s me.’
‘No.’
‘You’re mad because I left you to become a Hunter of
Artemis. You’re mad because I died and left you alone. I’m
sorry for that, Nico. I truly am. But you must overcome the
anger. And stop blaming Percy for my choices. It will be your
doom.’
945
‘She’s right,’ Annabeth broke in. ‘Kronos is rising, Nico.
He’ll twist anyone he can to his cause.’
‘I don’t care about Kronos,’ Nico said. ‘I just want my
sister back.’
‘You can’t have that, Nico,’ Bianca told him gently.
‘I’m the son of Hades! I can.’
‘Don’t try,’ she said. ‘If you love me, don’t…’
Her voice trailed oﬀ. Spirits had started to gather around
us again, and they seemed agitated. Their shadows shifted.
Their voices whispered, Danger!
‘Tartarus stirs,’ Bianca said. ‘Your power draws the
attention of Kronos. The dead must return to the
Underworld. It is not safe for us to remain.’
‘Wait,’ Nico said. ‘Please –’
‘Goodbye, Nico,’ Bianca said. ‘I love you. Remember what
I said.’
Her form shivered and the ghosts disappeared, leaving us
alone with a pit, a HAPPY FLUSH septic tank and a cold full
moon.
None of us were anxious to travel that night, so we decided
to wait until morning. Grover and I crashed on the leather
couches in Geryon’s living room, which was a lot more
comfortable than a bedroll in the maze, but it didn’t make
my nightmares any better.
I dreamed I was with Luke, walking through the dark
palace on top of Mount Tam. It was a real building now – not
some half-ﬁnished illusion like I’d seen last winter. Green
ﬁres burned in braziers along the walls. The ﬂoor was
polished black marble. A cold wind blew down the hallway,
and above us through the open ceiling the sky swirled with
grey storm clouds.
Luke was dressed for battle. He wore camouﬂage
combats, a white T-shirt and a bronze breastplate, but his
sword, Backbiter, wasn’t at his side – only an empty
scabbard. We walked into a large courtyard where dozens of
946
warriors and dracaenae were preparing for war. When they
saw him, the demigods rose to attention. They beat their
swords against their shields.
‘Issss it time, my lord?’ a dracaena asked.
‘Soon,’ Luke promised. ‘Continue your work.’
‘My lord,’ a voice said behind him. Kelli the empousa was
smiling at him. She wore a blue dress tonight, and looked
wickedly beautiful. Her eyes ﬂickered – sometimes dark
brown, sometimes pure red. Her hair was braided down her
back and seemed to catch the light of the torches, as if it
were anxious to turn back into pure ﬂame.
My heart was pounding. I waited for Kelli to see me, to
chase me out of the dream as she had before, but this time
she didn’t seem to notice me.
‘You have a visitor,’ she told Luke. She stepped aside, and
even Luke seemed stunned by what he saw.
The monster Kampê towered above him. Her snakes
hissed around her legs. Animal heads growled at her waist.
Her swords were drawn, shimmering with poison, and with
her bat wings extended, she took up the entire corridor.
‘You.’ Luke’s voice sounded a little shaky. ‘I told you to
stay on Alcatraz.’
Kampê’s eyelids blinked sideways like a reptile’s. She
spoke in that weird rumbling language, but this time I
understood, somewhere in the back of my mind: I come to
serve. Give me revenge.
‘You’re a jailer,’ Luke said. ‘Your job –’
I will have them dead. No one escapes me.
Luke hesitated. A line of sweat trickled down the side of
his face. ‘Very well,’ he said. ‘You will go with us. You may
carry Ariadne’s string. It is a position of great honour.’
Kampê hissed at the stars. She sheathed her swords and
turned, pounding down the hallway on her enormous dragon
legs.
‘We should have left that one in Tartarus,’ Luke mumbled.
‘She is too chaotic. Too powerful.’
947
Kelli laughed softly. ‘You should not fear power, Luke. Use
it!’
‘The sooner we leave, the better,’ Luke said. ‘I want this
over with.’
‘Aww,’ Kelli sympathized, running a ﬁnger down his arm.
‘You ﬁnd it unpleasant to destroy your old camp?’
‘I didn’t say that.’
‘You’re not having second thoughts about your own, ah,
special part?’
Luke’s face turned stony. ‘I know my duty.’
‘That is good,’ the demon said. ‘Is our strike force
suﬃcient, do you think? Or will I need to call Mother Hecate
for help?’
‘We have more than enough,’ Luke said grimly. ‘The deal
is almost complete. All I need now is to negotiate safe
passage through the arena.’
‘Mmm,’ Kelli said. ‘That should be interesting. I would hate
to see your handsome head on a spike if you fail.’
‘I will not fail. And you, demon, don’t you have other
matters to attend to?’
‘Oh, yes.’ Kelli smiled. ‘I am bringing despair to our
eavesdropping enemies. I am doing that right now.’
She turned her eyes directly on me, exposed her talons
and ripped through my dream.
Suddenly I was in a diﬀerent place.
I stood at the top of a stone tower, overlooking rocky cliﬀs
and the ocean below. The old man Daedalus was hunched
over a worktable, wrestling with some kind of navigational
instrument, like a huge compass. He looked years older than
when I’d last seen him. He was stooped and his hands were
gnarled. He cursed in Ancient Greek and squinted as if he
couldn’t see his work, even though it was a sunny day.
‘Uncle!’ a voice called.
A smiling boy about Nico’s age came bounding up the
steps, carrying a wooden box.
948
‘Hello, Perdix,’ the old man said, though his tone sounded
cold. ‘Done with your projects already?’
‘Yes, Uncle. They were easy!’
Daedalus scowled. ‘Easy? The problem of moving water
uphill without a pump was easy?’
‘Oh, yes! Look!’
The boy dumped his box and rummaged through the junk.
He came up with a strip of papyrus and showed the old
inventor some diagrams and notes. They didn’t make any
sense to me, but Daedalus nodded grudgingly. ‘I see. Not
bad.’
‘The king loved it!’ Perdix said. ‘He said I might be even
smarter than you!’
‘Did he now?’
‘But I don’t believe that. I’m so glad Mother sent me to
study with you! I want to know everything you do.’
‘Yes,’ Daedalus muttered. ‘So when I die, you can take my
place, eh?’
The boy’s eyes widened. ‘Oh no, Uncle! But I’ve been
thinking… why does a man have to die, anyway?’
The inventor scowled. ‘It is the way of things, lad.
Everything dies but the gods.’
‘But why?’ the boy insisted. ‘If you could capture the
animus, the soul in another form… Well, you’ve told me
about your automatons, Uncle. Bulls, eagles, dragons,
horses of bronze. Why not a bronze form for a man?’
‘No, my boy,’ Daedalus said sharply. ‘You are naive. Such
a thing is impossible.’
‘I don’t think so,’ Perdix insisted. ‘With the use of a little
magic –’
‘Magic? Bah!’
‘Yes, Uncle! Magic and mechanics together – with a little
work, one could make a body that would look exactly
human, only better. I’ve made some notes.’
He handed the old man a thick scroll. Daedalus unfurled
it. He read for a long time. His eyes narrowed. He glanced at
949
the boy, then closed the scroll and cleared his throat. ‘It
would never work, my boy. When you’re older, you’ll see.’
‘Can I ﬁx that astrolabe, then, Uncle? Are your joints
swelling up again?’
The old man’s jaw clenched. ‘No. Thank you. Now why
don’t you run along?’
Perdix didn’t seem to notice the old man’s anger. He
snatched a bronze beetle from his mound of stuﬀ and ran to
the edge of the tower. A low sill ringed the rim, coming just
up to the boy’s knees. The wind was strong.
Move back, I wanted to tell him. But my voice didn’t work.
Perdix wound up the beetle and tossed it into the sky. It
spread its wings and hummed away. Perdix laughed with
delight.
‘Smarter than me,’ Daedalus mumbled, too softly for the
boy to hear.
‘Is it true your son died ﬂying, Uncle? I heard you made
him enormous wings, but they failed.’
Daedalus’s hands clenched. ‘Take my place,’ he muttered.
The wind whipped around the boy, tugging at his clothes,
making his hair ripple.
‘I would like to ﬂy,’ Perdix said. ‘I’d make my own wings
that wouldn’t fail. Do you think I could?’
Maybe it was a dream within my dream, but suddenly I
imagined the two-headed god Janus shimmering in the air
next to Daedalus, smiling as he tossed a silver key from
hand to hand. Choose, he whispered to the old inventor.
Choose.
Daedalus picked up another one of the boy’s metal bugs.
The inventor’s old eyes were red with anger.
‘Perdix,’ he called. ‘Catch.’
He tossed the bronze beetle towards the boy. Delighted,
Perdix tried to catch it, but the throw was too long. The
beetle sailed into open sky, and Perdix reached a little too
far. The wind caught him.
950
Somehow he managed to grab the rim of the tower with
his ﬁngers as he fell. ‘Uncle!’ he screamed. ‘Help me!’
The old man’s face was a mask. He did not move from his
spot.
‘Go on, Perdix,’ Daedalus said softly. ‘Make your own
wings. Be quick about it.’
‘Uncle!’ the boy cried as he lost his grip. He tumbled
towards the sea.
There was a moment of deadly silence. The god Janus
ﬂickered and disappeared. Then thunder shook the sky. A
woman’s stern voice spoke from above: You will pay the
price for that, Daedalus.
I’d heard that voice before. It was Annabeth’s mother:
Athena.
Daedalus scowled up at the heavens. ‘I have always
honoured you, Mother. I have sacriﬁced everything to follow
your way.’
Yet the boy had my blessing as well. And you have killed
him. For that, you must pay.
‘I’ve paid and paid!’ Daedalus growled. ‘I’ve lost
everything. I’ll suﬀer in the Underworld, no doubt. But in the
meantime…
He picked up the boy’s scroll, studied it for a moment and
slipped it into his sleeve.
You do not understand, Athena said coldly. You will pay
now and forever.
Suddenly Daedalus collapsed in agony. I felt what he felt.
A searing pain closed around my neck like a molten-hot
collar – cutting oﬀ my breath, making everything go black.
I woke in the dark, my hands clutching at my throat.
‘Percy?’ Grover called from the other sofa. ‘Are you okay?’
I steadied my breathing. I wasn’t sure how to answer. I’d
just watched the guy we were looking for, Daedalus, murder
his own nephew. How could I be okay? The television was
going. Blue light ﬂickered through the room.
951
‘What – what time is it?’ I croaked.
‘Two in the morning,’ Grover said. ‘I couldn’t sleep. I was
watching the Nature Channel.’ He sniﬄed. ‘I miss Juniper.’
I rubbed the sleep out of my eyes. ‘Yeah, well… you’ll see
her again soon.’
Grover shook his head sadly. ‘Do you know what day it is,
Percy? I just saw it on TV. It’s June thirteenth. Seven days
since we left camp.’
‘What?’ I said. ‘That can’t be right.’
‘Time is faster in the Labyrinth,’ Grover reminded me. ‘The
ﬁrst time you and Annabeth went down there, you thought
you were only gone a few minutes, right? But it was an
hour.’
‘Oh,’ I said. ‘Right.’ Then it dawned on me what he was
saying, and my throat felt searing hot again. ‘Your deadline
with the Council of Cloven Elders.’
Grover put the TV remote in his mouth and crunched oﬀ
the end of it. ‘I’m out of time,’ he said with a mouthful of
plastic. ‘As soon as I go back, they’ll take away my
searcher’s licence. I’ll never be allowed to go out again.’
‘We’ll talk to them,’ I promised. ‘Make them give you more
time.’
Grover swallowed. ‘They’ll never go for it. The world is
dying, Percy. Every day it gets worse. The wild… I can just
feel it fading. I have to ﬁnd Pan.’
‘You will, man. No doubt.’
Grover looked at me with sad goat eyes. ‘You’ve always
been a good friend, Percy. What you did today – saving the
ranch animals from Geryon – that was amazing. I – I wish I
could be more like you.’
‘Hey,’ I said. ‘Don’t say that. You’re just as much a hero –’
‘No, I’m not. I keep trying, but…’ He sighed. ‘Percy, I can’t
go back to camp without ﬁnding Pan. I just can’t. You
understand that, don’t you? I can’t face Juniper if I fail. I
can’t even face myself.’
952
His voice was so unhappy, it hurt to hear. We’d been
through a lot together, but I’d never heard him sound this
down.
‘We’ll ﬁgure out something,’ I said. ‘You haven’t failed.
You’re the champion goat boy, all right? Juniper knows that.
So do I.’
Grover closed his eyes. ‘Champion goat boy,’ he muttered
dejectedly.
A long time after he had dozed oﬀ, I was still awake,
watching the blue light of the Nature Channel wash over the
stuﬀed trophy heads on Geryon’s walls.
The next morning we walked down to the cattle grid and
said our goodbyes.
‘Nico, you could come with us,’ I blurted out. I guess I was
thinking about my dream, and how much the young boy
Perdix reminded me of Nico.
He shook his head. I don’t think one of us had slept well in
the demon ranch house, but Nico looked worse than
anybody else. His eyes were red and his face chalky. He was
wrapped in a black robe that must’ve belonged to Geryon,
because it was three sizes too big even for a grown man.
‘I need time to think.’ His eyes wouldn’t meet mine, but I
could tell from his tone he was still angry. The fact that his
sister had come out of the Underworld for me and not for
him didn’t seem to sit well with him.
‘Nico,’ Annabeth said. ‘Bianca just wants you to be okay.’
She put her hand on his shoulder, but he pulled away and
trudged up the road towards the ranch house. Maybe it was
my imagination, but the morning mist seemed to cling to
him as he walked.
‘I’m worried about him,’ Annabeth told me. ‘If he starts
talking to Minos’s ghost again –’
‘He’ll be all right,’ Eurytion promised. The cowherd had
cleaned up nicely. He was wearing new jeans and a clean
Western shirt and he’d even trimmed his beard. He’d put on
953
Geryon’s boots. ‘The boy can stay here and gather his
thoughts as long as he wants. He’ll be safe, I promise.’
‘What about you?’ I asked.
Eurytion scratched Orthus behind one chin, then the
other. ‘Things are going to be run a little diﬀerent on this
ranch from now on. No more sacred cattle meat. I’m
thinking about soya-bean patties. And I’m going to befriend
those ﬂesh-eating horses. Might just sign up for the next
rodeo.’
The idea made me shudder. ‘Well, good luck.’
‘Yep.’ Eurytion spat into the grass. ‘I reckon you’ll be
looking for Daedalus’s workshop now?’
Annabeth’s eyes lit up. ‘Can you help us?’
Eurytion studied the cattle grid, and I got the feeling the
subject of Daedalus’s workshop made him uncomfortable.
‘Don’t know where it is. But Hephaestus probably would.’
‘That’s what Hera said,’ Annabeth agreed. ‘But how do we
ﬁnd Hephaestus?’
Eurytion pulled something from under the collar of his
shirt. It was a necklace – a smooth silver disc on a silver
chain. The disc had a depression on the middle, like a
thumbprint. He handed it to Annabeth.
‘Hephaestus comes here from time to time,’ Eurytion said.
‘Studies the animals and such so he can make bronze
automaton copies. Last time, I – uh – did him a favour. A
little trick he wanted to play on my dad, Ares, and
Aphrodite. He gave me that chain in gratitude. Said if I ever
needed to ﬁnd him, the disc would lead me to his forges.
But only once.’
‘And you’re giving it to me?’ Annabeth asked.
Eurytion blushed. ‘I don’t need to see the forges, miss.
Got enough to do here. Just press the button and you’ll be
on your way.’
Annabeth pressed the button and the disc sprang to life. It
grew eight metallic legs. Annabeth shrieked and dropped it,
much to Eurytion’s confusion.
954
‘Spider!’ she screamed.
‘She’s, um, a little scared of spiders,’ Grover explained.
‘That old grudge between Athena and Arachne.’
‘Oh.’ Eurytion looked embarrassed. ‘Sorry, miss.’
The spider scrambled to the cattle grid and disappeared
between the bars.
‘Hurry,’ I said. ‘That thing’s not going to wait for us.’
Annabeth wasn’t anxious to follow, but we didn’t have
much choice. We said our goodbyes to Eurytion, Tyson
pulled the cattle grid oﬀ the hole and we dropped back into
the maze.
I wish I could’ve put the mechanical spider on a leash. It
scuttled along the tunnels so fast that most of time I
couldn’t even see it. If it hadn’t been for Tyson’s and
Grover’s excellent hearing, we never would’ve known which
way it was going.
We ran down a marble tunnel, then dashed to the left and
almost fell into an abyss. Tyson grabbed me and hauled me
back before I could fall. The tunnel continued in front of us,
but there was no ﬂoor for about thirty metres, just gaping
darkness and a series of iron rungs in the ceiling. The
mechanical spider was about halfway across, swinging from
bar to bar by shooting out metal web ﬁbre.
‘Monkey bars,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’m great at these.’
She leaped onto the ﬁrst rung and started swinging her
way across. She was scared of tiny spiders, but not of
plummeting to her death from a set of monkey bars. Go
ﬁgure.
Annabeth got to the opposite side and ran after the spider.
I followed. When I got across, I looked back and saw Tyson
giving Grover a piggyback ride (or was it a goatyback ride?).
The big guy made it across in three swings, which was a
good thing since, just as he landed, the last iron bar ripped
free under his weight.
955
We kept moving and passed a skeleton crumpled in the
tunnel. It wore the remains of a dress shirt, trousers and a
tie. The spider didn’t slow down. I slipped on a pile of wood
scraps, but when I shone a light on them I realized they
were pencils – hundreds of them, all broken in half.
The tunnel opened up into a large room. A blazing light hit
us. Once my eyes adjusted, the ﬁrst thing I noticed were the
skeletons. Dozens littered the ﬂoor around us. Some were
old and bleached white. Others were more recent and a lot
grosser. They didn’t smell quite as bad as Geryon’s stables,
but almost.
Then I saw the monster. She stood on a glittery dais on
the opposite side of the room. She had the body of a huge
lion and the head of a woman. She would’ve been pretty,
but her hair was tied back in a tight bun and she wore too
much makeup, so she kind of reminded me of my third-
grade choir teacher. She had a blue ribbon badge pinned to
her chest that took me a moment to read: THIS MONSTER
HAS BEEN RATED EXEMPLARY!
Tyson whimpered. ‘Sphinx.’
I knew exactly why he was scared. When he was small,
Tyson had been attacked by a Sphinx in New York. He still
had the scars on his back to prove it.
Spotlights blazed on either side of the creature. The only
exit was a tunnel right behind the dais. The mechanical
spider scuttled between the Sphinx’s paws and disappeared.
Annabeth started forward, but the Sphinx roared, showing
fangs in her otherwise human face. Bars came down on
both tunnel exits, behind us and in front.
Immediately the monster’s snarl turned into a brilliant
smile.
‘Welcome, lucky contestants!’ she announced. ‘Get ready
to play… ANSWER THAT RIDDLE!’
Canned applause blasted from the ceiling, as if there were
invisible loudspeakers. Spotlights swept across the room
956
and reﬂected oﬀ the dais, throwing disco glitter over the
skeletons on the ﬂoor.
‘Fabulous prizes!’ the Sphinx said. ‘Pass the test, and you
get to advance! Fail, and I get to eat you! Who will be our
contestant?’
Annabeth grabbed my arm. ‘I’ve got this,’ she whispered.
‘I know what she’s going to ask.’
I didn’t argue too hard. I didn’t want Annabeth getting
devoured by a monster, but I ﬁgured if the Sphinx were
going to ask riddles, Annabeth was the best one of us to try.
She stepped forward to the contestant’s podium, which
had a skeleton in a school uniform hunched over it. She
pushed the skeleton out of the way, and it clattered to the
ﬂoor.
‘Sorry,’ Annabeth told it.
‘Welcome, Annabeth Chase!’ the monster cried, though
Annabeth hadn’t said her name. ‘Are you ready for your
test?’
‘Yes,’ she said. ‘Ask your riddle.’
‘Twenty riddles, actually!’ the Sphinx said gleefully.
‘What? But back in the old days –’
‘Oh, we’ve raised our standards! To pass, you must show
proﬁciency in all twenty. Isn’t that great?’
Applause switched on and oﬀ like somebody turning a
faucet.
Annabeth glanced at me nervously. I gave her an
encouraging nod.
‘Okay,’ she told the Sphinx. ‘I’m ready.’
A drumroll sounded from above. The Sphinx’s eyes
glittered with excitement. ‘What… is the capital of
Bulgaria?’
Annabeth frowned. For a terrible moment, I thought she
was stumped.
‘Soﬁa,’ she said, ‘but –’
‘Correct!’ More canned applause. The Sphinx smiled so
wide her fangs showed. ‘Please be sure to mark your answer
957
clearly on your test sheet with a 2B pencil.’
‘What?’ Annabeth looked mystiﬁed. Then a test booklet
appeared on the podium in front of her, along with a
sharpened pencil.
‘Make sure you bubble each answer clearly and stay
inside the circle,’ the Sphinx said. ‘If you have to erase,
erase completely or the machine will not be able to read
your answers.’
‘What machine?’ Annabeth asked.
The Sphinx pointed with her paw. Over by the spotlight
was a bronze box with a bunch of gears and levers and a big
Greek letter H, Êta, on the side, the mark of Hephaestus.
‘Now,’ said the Sphinx, ‘next question –’
‘Wait a second,’ Annabeth protested. ‘What about “What
walks on four legs in the morning?” ’
‘I beg your pardon?’ the Sphinx said, clearly annoyed now.
‘The riddle about man. He walks on four legs in morning,
like a baby, two legs in the afternoon, like an adult, and
three legs in the evening, as an old man with a cane. That’s
the riddle you used to ask.’
‘Exactly why we changed the test!’ the Sphinx exclaimed.
‘You already knew the answer. Now, second question, what
is the square root of sixteen?’
‘Four,’ Annabeth said, ‘but –’
‘Correct! Which US president signed the Emancipation
Proclamation?’
‘Abraham Lincoln, but –’
‘Correct! Riddle number four. How much –’
‘Hold up!’ Annabeth shouted.
I wanted to tell her to stop complaining. She was doing
great! She should just answer the questions so we could
leave.
‘These aren’t riddles,’ Annabeth said.
‘What do you mean?’ the Sphinx snapped. ‘Of course they
are. This test material is specially designed –’
958
‘It’s just a bunch of dumb, random facts,’ Annabeth
insisted. ‘Riddles are supposed to make you think.’
‘Think?’ The Sphinx frowned. ‘How am I supposed to test
whether you can think? That’s ridiculous! Now, how much
force is required –’
‘Stop!’ Annabeth insisted. ‘This is a stupid test.’
‘Um, Annabeth,’ Grover cut in nervously. ‘Maybe you
should just, you know, ﬁnish ﬁrst and complain later?’
‘I’m a child of Athena,’ she insisted. ‘And this is an insult
to my intelligence. I won’t answer these questions.’
Part of me was impressed with her for standing up like
that. But part of me thought her pride was going to get us
all killed.
The spotlights glared. The Sphinx’s eyes glittered pure
black.
‘Why then, my dear,’ the monster said calmly. ‘If you
won’t pass, you fail. And since we can’t allow any children to
be held back, you’ll be EATEN!’
The Sphinx bared her claws, which gleamed like stainless
steel. She pounced at the podium.
‘No!’ Tyson charged. He hates it when people threaten
Annabeth, but I couldn’t believe he was being so brave,
especially since he’d had such a bad experience with a
Sphinx before.
He tackled the Sphinx midair and they crashed sideways
into a pile of bones. This gave Annabeth just enough time to
gather her wits and draw her knife. Tyson got up, his shirt
clawed to shreds. The Sphinx growled, looking for an
opening.
I drew Riptide and stepped in front of Annabeth.
‘Turn invisible,’ I told her.
‘I can ﬁght!’
‘No!’ I yelled. ‘The Sphinx is after you! Let us get it.’
As if to prove my point, the Sphinx knocked Tyson aside
and tried to charge past me. Grover poked her in the eye
with somebody’s leg bone. She screeched in pain. Annabeth
959
put on her cap and vanished. The Sphinx pounced right
where she’d been standing, but came up with empty paws.
‘No fair!’ the Sphinx wailed. ‘Cheater!’
With Annabeth no longer in sight, the Sphinx turned on
me. I raised my sword but, before I could strike, Tyson
ripped the monster’s grading machine out of the ﬂoor and
threw it at the monster’s head, ruining her hair bun. It
landed in pieces all around her.
‘My grading machine!’ she cried. ‘I can’t be exemplary
without my test scores!’
The bars lifted from the exits. We all dashed for the far
tunnel. I could only hope Annabeth was doing the same.
The Sphinx started to follow, but Grover raised his reed
pipes and began to play. Suddenly the pencils remembered
they used to be parts of trees. They collected around the
Sphinx’s paws, grew roots and branches, and began
wrapping around the monster’s legs. The Sphinx ripped
through them, but it bought us just enough time.
Tyson pulled Grover into the tunnel, and the bars slammed
shut behind us.
‘Annabeth!’ I yelled.
‘Here!’ she said, right next to me. ‘Keep moving!’
We ran through the dark tunnels, listening to the roar of
the Sphinx behind us as she complained about all the tests
she would have to grade by hand.
960
11    I Set Myself on Fire
 
I thought we’d lost the spider until Tyson heard a faint
pinging sound. We made a few turns, backtracked a few
times and eventually found the spider banging its tiny head
on a metal door.
The door looked like one of those old-fashioned submarine
hatches – oval, with metal rivets around the edges and a
wheel for a doorknob. Where the portal should’ve been was
a big brass plaque, green with age, with a Greek Êta
inscribed in the middle.
We all looked at each other.
‘Ready to meet Hephaestus?’ Grover said nervously.
‘No,’ I admitted.
‘Yes!’ Tyson said gleefully, and he turned the wheel.
As soon as the door opened, the spider scuttled inside
with Tyson right behind it. The rest of us followed, not quite
as anxious.
The room was enormous. It looked like a mechanic’s
garage, with several hydraulic lifts. Some had cars on them,
but others had stranger things: a bronze hippalektryon with
its horse head oﬀ and a bunch of wires hanging out of its
rooster tail, a metal lion that seemed to be hooked up to a
battery charger, and a Greek war chariot made entirely of
ﬂames.
Smaller projects cluttered a dozen worktables. Tools hung
along the walls. Each had its own outline on a peg-board,
but nothing seemed to be in the right place. The hammer
was over the screwdriver place. The staple gun was where
the hacksaw was supposed to go.
961
Under the nearest hydraulic lift, which was holding a ’98
Toyota Corolla, a pair of legs stuck out – the lower half of a
huge man in grubby grey overalls and shoes even bigger
than Tyson’s. One leg was in a metal brace.
The spider scuttled straight under the car, and the sounds
of banging stopped.
‘Well, well,’ a deep voice boomed from under the Corolla.
‘What have we here?’
The mechanic pushed out on a back trolley and sat up. I’d
seen Hephaestus once before, brieﬂy, on Olympus, so I
thought I was prepared, but his appearance made me gulp.
I guess he’d cleaned up when I saw him on Olympus, or
used magic to make his form seem a little less hideous.
Here in his own workshop, he apparently didn’t care how he
looked. He wore overalls smeared with oil and grime.
Hephaestus was embroidered over the chest pocket. His leg
creaked and clicked in its metal brace as he stood, and his
left shoulder was lower than his right, so he seemed to be
leaning even when he was standing up straight. His head
was misshapen and bulging. He wore a permanent scowl.
His black beard smoked and hissed. Every once in a while a
small wildﬁre would erupt in his whiskers then die out. His
hands were the size of catcher’s mitts, but he handled the
spider with amazing skill. He disassembled it in two
seconds, then put it back together.
‘There,’ he muttered to himself. ‘Much better.’
The spider did a happy ﬂip in his palm, shot a metallic
web at the ceiling, and went swinging away.
Hephaestus glowered up at us. ‘I didn’t make you, did I?’
‘Uh,’ Annabeth said, ‘no, sir.’
‘Good,’ the god grumbled. ‘Shoddy workmanship.’
He studied Annabeth and me. ‘Half-bloods,’ he grunted.
‘Could be automatons, of course, but probably not.’
‘We’ve met, sir,’ I told him.
‘Have we?’ the god asked absently. I got the feeling he
didn’t care one way or the other. He was just trying to ﬁgure
962
out how my jaw worked, whether it was a hinge or lever or
what. ‘Well then, if I didn’t smash you to a pulp the ﬁrst time
we met, I suppose I won’t have to do it now.’
He looked at Grover and frowned. ‘Satyr.’ Then he looked
at Tyson, and his eyes twinkled. ‘Well, a Cyclops. Good,
good. What are you doing travelling with this lot?’
‘Uh…’ said Tyson, staring in wonder at the god.
‘Yes, well said,’ Hephaestus agreed. ‘So, there’d better be
a good reason you’re disturbing me. The suspension on this
Corolla is no small matter, you know.’
‘Sir,’ 
Annabeth 
said 
hesitantly, 
‘we’re 
looking 
for
Daedalus. We thought –’
‘Daedalus?’ the god roared. ‘You want that old scoundrel?
You dare to seek him out!’
His beard burst into ﬂames and his black eyes glowed.
‘Uh, yes, sir, please,’ Annabeth said.
‘Humph. You’re wasting your time.’ He frowned at
something on his worktable and limped over to it. He picked
up a lump of springs and metal plates and tinkered with
them. In a few seconds, he was holding a bronze and silver
falcon. It spread its metal wings, blinked its obsidian eyes
and ﬂew around the room.
Tyson laughed and clapped his hands. The bird landed on
Tyson’s shoulder and nipped his ear aﬀectionately.
Hephaestus regarded him. The god’s scowl didn’t change,
but I thought I saw a kinder twinkle in his eyes. ‘I sense you
have something to tell me, Cyclops.’
Tyson’s smile faded. ‘Y-yes, lord. We met a Hundred-
handed One.’
Hephaestus nodded, looking unsurprised. ‘Briares?’
‘Yes. He – he was scared. He would not help us.’
‘And that bothered you.’
‘Yes!’ Tyson’s voice wavered. ‘Briares should be strong! He
is older and greater than Cyclopes. But he ran away.’
Hephaestus grunted. ‘There was a time I admired the
Hundred-handed Ones. Back in the days of the ﬁrst war. But
963
people, monsters, even gods change, young Cyclops. You
can’t trust’ em. Look at my loving mother, Hera. You met
her, didn’t you? She’ll smile to your face and talk about how
important family is, eh? Didn’t stop her from pitching me oﬀ
Mount Olympus when she saw my ugly face.’
‘But I thought Zeus did that to you,’ I said.
Hephaestus cleared his throat and spat into a bronze
spittoon. He snapped his ﬁngers, and the robotic falcon ﬂew
back to the worktable.
‘Mother likes telling that version of the story,’ he
grumbled. ‘Makes her seem more likeable, doesn’t it?
Blaming it all on my dad. The truth is, my mother likes
families, but she likes a certain kind of family. Perfect
families. She took one look at me and… well, I don’t ﬁt the
image, do I?’
He pulled a feather from the falcon’s back, and the whole
automaton fell apart.
‘Believe me, young Cyclops,’ Hephaestus said, ‘you can’t
trust others. All you can trust is the work of your own
hands.’
It seemed like a pretty lonely way to live. Plus, I didn’t
exactly trust the work of Hephaestus. One time in Denver,
his mechanical spiders had almost killed Annabeth and me.
And last year it had been a defective Talos statue that cost
Bianca her life – another one of Hephaestus’s little projects.
He focused on me and narrowed his eyes, as if he were
reading my thoughts. ‘Oh, this one doesn’t like me,’ he
mused. ‘No worries, I’m used to that. What would you ask of
me, little demigod?’
‘We told you,’ I said. ‘We need to ﬁnd Daedalus. There’s
this guy Luke, and he’s working for Kronos. He’s trying to
ﬁnd a way to navigate the Labyrinth so he can invade our
camp. If we don’t get to Daedalus ﬁrst –’
‘And I told you, boy. Looking for Daedalus is a waste of
time. He won’t help you.’
‘Why not?’
964
Hephaestus shrugged. ‘Some of us get thrown oﬀ
mountainsides. Some of us… the way we learn not to trust
people is even more painful. Ask me for gold. Or a ﬂaming
sword. Or a magical steed. These I can grant you easily. But
a way to Daedalus? That’s an expensive favour.’
‘You know where he is, then,’ Annabeth pressed.
‘It isn’t wise to go looking, girl.’
‘My mother says looking is the nature of wisdom.’
Hephaestus narrowed his eyes. ‘Who’s your mother,
then?’
‘Athena.’
‘Figures.’ He sighed. ‘Fine goddess, Athena. A shame she
pledged never to marry. All right, half-blood. I can tell you
what you want to know. But there is a price. I need a favour
done.’
‘Name it,’ Annabeth said.
Hephaestus actually laughed – a booming sound like a
huge bellows stoking a ﬁre. ‘You heroes,’ he said, ‘always
making rash promises. How refreshing!’
He pressed a button on his workbench, and metal shutters
opened along the wall. It was either a huge window or a big-
screen TV, I couldn’t tell which. We were looking at a grey
mountain ringed in forests. It must’ve been a volcano,
because smoke rose from its crest.
‘One of my forges,’ Hephaestus said. ‘I have many, but
that used to be my favourite.’
‘That’s Mount St Helens,’ Grover said. ‘Great forests
around there.’
‘You’ve been there?’ I asked.
‘Looking for… you know. Pan.’
‘Wait,’ Annabeth said, looking at Hephaestus. ‘You said it
used to be your favourite. What happened?’
Hephaestus scratched his smouldering beard. ‘Well, that’s
where the monster Typhon is trapped, you know. Used to be
under Mount Etna, but when we moved to America, his force
got pinned under Mount St Helens instead. Great source of
965
ﬁre, but a bit dangerous. There’s always a chance he will
escape. Lots of eruptions these days, smouldering all the
time. He’s restless with the Titan rebellion.’
‘What do you want us to do?’ I said. ‘Fight him?’
Hephaestus snorted. ‘That would be suicide. The gods
themselves ran from Typhon when he was free. No, pray you
never have to see him, much less ﬁght him. But lately I
have sensed intruders in my mountain. Someone or
something is using my forges. When I go there, it is empty,
but I can tell it is being used. They sense me coming, and
they disappear. I send my automatons to investigate, but
they do not return. Something… ancient is there. Evil. I want
to know who dares invade my territory, and if they mean to
loose Typhon.’
‘You want us to ﬁnd out who it is,’ I said.
‘Aye,’ Hephaestus said. ‘Go there. They may not sense
you coming. You are not gods.’
‘Glad you noticed,’ I muttered.
‘Go and ﬁnd out what you can,’ Hephaestus said. ‘Report
back to me, and I will tell you what you need to know about
Daedalus.’
‘All right,’ Annabeth said. ‘How do we get there?’
Hephaestus clapped his hands. The spider came swinging
down from the rafters. Annabeth ﬂinched when it landed at
her feet.
‘My creation will show you the way,’ Hephaestus said. ‘It is
not far through the Labyrinth. And try to stay alive, will you?
Humans are much more fragile than automatons.’
We were doing okay until we hit the tree roots. The spider
raced along and we were keeping up, but then we spotted a
tunnel oﬀ to the side that was dug from raw earth, and
wrapped in thick roots. Grover stopped dead in his tracks.
‘What is it?’ I said.
He didn’t move. He stared open-mouthed into the dark
tunnel. His curly hair rustled in the breeze.
966
‘Come on!’ Annabeth said. ‘We have to keep moving.’
‘This is the way,’ Grover muttered in awe. ‘This is it.’
‘What way?’ I asked. ‘You mean… to Pan?’
Grover looked at Tyson. ‘Don’t you smell it?’
‘Earth,’ Tyson said. ‘And plants.’
‘Yes! This is the way. I’m sure of it!’
Up ahead, the spider was getting further down the stone
corridor. A few more seconds and we’d lose it.
‘We’ll come back,’ Annabeth promised. ‘On our way back
to Hephaestus.’
‘The tunnel will be gone by then,’ Grover said. ‘I have to
follow it. A door like this won’t stay open!’
‘But we can’t,’ Annabeth said. ‘The forges!’
Grover looked at her sadly. ‘I have to, Annabeth. Don’t you
understand?’
She looked desperate, like she didn’t understand at all.
The spider was almost out of sight. But I thought about my
conversation with Grover last night, and I knew what we had
to do.
‘We’ll split up,’ I said.
‘No!’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s way too dangerous. How will
we ever ﬁnd each other again? And Grover can’t go alone.’
Tyson put his hand on Grover’s shoulder. ‘I – I will go with
him.’
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this. ‘Tyson, are you sure?’
The big guy nodded. ‘Goat boy needs help. We will ﬁnd
the god person. I am not like Hephaestus. I trust friends.’
Grover took a deep breath. ‘Percy, we’ll ﬁnd each other
again. We’ve still got the empathy link. I just… have to.’
I didn’t blame him. This was his life’s goal. If he didn’t ﬁnd
Pan on this journey, the council would never give him
another chance.
‘I hope you’re right,’ I said.
‘I know I am.’ I’d never heard him sound so conﬁdent
about anything, except maybe that cheese enchiladas were
better than chicken enchiladas.
967
‘Be careful,’ I told him. Then I looked at Tyson. He gulped
back a sob and gave me a hug that just about squeezed my
eyes out of their sockets. Then he and Grover disappeared
through the tunnel of tree roots and were lost in the
darkness.
‘This is bad,’ Annabeth said. ‘Splitting up is a really, really
bad idea.’
‘We’ll see them again,’ I said, trying to sound conﬁdent.
‘Now, come on. The spider is getting away!’
It wasn’t long before the tunnel started to get hot.
The stone walls glowed. The air felt as if we were walking
through an oven. The tunnel sloped down and I could hear a
loud roar, like a river of metal. The spider skittered along,
with Annabeth right behind.
‘Hey, wait up,’ I called to her.
She glanced back at me. ‘Yeah?’
‘Something Hephaestus said back there… about Athena.’
‘She swore never to marry,’ Annabeth said. ‘Like Artemis
and Hestia. She’s one of the maiden goddesses.’
I blinked. I’d never heard that about Athena before. ‘But
then –’
‘How come she has demigod children?’
I nodded. I was probably blushing, but hopefully it was so
hot anyway that Annabeth wouldn’t notice.
‘Percy, you know how Athena was born?’
‘She sprang from the head of Zeus in full battle armour or
something.’
‘Exactly. She wasn’t born in the normal way. She was
literally born from thoughts. Her children are born the same
way. When Athena falls in love with a mortal man, it’s purely
intellectual, the way she loved Odysseus in the old stories.
It’s a meeting of minds. She would tell you that’s the purest
kind of love.’
‘So your dad and Athena… so you weren’t…’
968
‘I was a brain child,’ Annabeth said. ‘Literally. Children of
Athena are sprung from the divine thoughts of our mother
and the mortal ingenuity of our father. We are supposed to
be a gift, a blessing from Athena on the men she favours.’
‘But –’
‘Percy, the spider’s getting away. Do you really want me to
explain the exact details of how I was born?’
‘Um… no. That’s okay.’
She smirked. ‘I thought not.’ And she ran ahead. I
followed, but I wasn’t sure I would ever look at Annabeth the
same way again. I decided some things were better left as
mysteries.
The roaring got louder. After another half-kilometre or so,
we emerged in a cavern the size of a Super Bowl stadium.
Our spider escort stopped and curled into a ball. We had
arrived at the forge of Hephaestus.
There was no ﬂoor, just bubbling lava hundreds of metres
below. We stood on a rock ridge that circled the cavern. A
network of metal bridges spanned across it. At the centre
was a huge platform with all sorts of machines, cauldrons,
forges and the largest anvil I’d ever seen – a block of iron
the size of a house. Creatures moved around the platform –
several strange, dark shapes, but they were too far away to
make out details.
‘We’ll never be able to sneak up on them,’ I said.
Annabeth picked up the metal spider and slipped it into
her pocket. ‘I can. Wait here.’
‘Hold it!’ I said, but before I could argue she put on her
Yankees cap and turned invisible.
I didn’t dare call after her, but I didn’t like the idea of her
approaching the forge on her own. If those things out there
could sense a god coming, would Annabeth be safe?
I looked back at the Labyrinth tunnel. I missed Grover and
Tyson already. Finally I decided I couldn’t stay put. I crept
along the outer rim of the lava lake, hoping I could get a
better angle to see what was happening in the middle.
969
The heat was horrible. Geryon’s ranch had been a winter
wonderland compared to this. In no time I was drenched
with sweat. My eyes stung from the smoke. I moved along,
trying to keep away from the edge, until I found my way
blocked by a cart on metal wheels, like the kind they use in
mine shafts. I lifted up the tarp and found it was half full of
scrap metal. I was about to squeeze my way around it when
I heard voices from up ahead, probably from a side tunnel.
‘Bring it in?’ one asked.
‘Yeah,’ another said. ‘Movie’s just about done.’
I panicked. I didn’t have time to back up. There was
nowhere to hide except… the cart. I scrambled inside and
pulled the tarp over me, hoping no one had seen me. I
curled my ﬁngers around Riptide, just in case I had to ﬁght.
The cart lurched forward.
‘Oi,’ a gruﬀ voice said. ‘Thing weighs a ton.’
‘It’s celestial bronze,’ the other said. ‘What did you
expect?’
I got pulled along. We turned a corner, and from the sound
of the wheels echoing against the walls I guessed we had
passed down a tunnel and into a smaller room. Hopefully I
was not about to be dumped into a smelting pot. If they
started to tip me over, I’d have to ﬁght my way out fast. I
heard lots of talking, chattering voices that didn’t sound
human – somewhere between a seal’s bark and a dog’s
growl. There was another sound, too – like an old-fashioned
ﬁlm projector and a tinny voice narrating.
‘Just set it at the back,’ a new voice ordered from across
the room. ‘Now, younglings. Please attend to the ﬁlm. There
will be time for questions afterwards.’
The voices quieted down, and I could hear the ﬁlm.
As a young sea demon matures, the narrator said,
changes happen in the monster’s body. You may notice your
fangs getting longer and you may have a sudden desire to
devour human beings. These changes are perfectly normal
and happen to all young monsters.
970
Excited snarling ﬁlled the room. The teacher – I guess it
must have been a teacher – scolded the younglings to be
quiet, and the ﬁlm continued. I didn’t understand most of it,
and I didn’t dare look. The ﬁlm kept talking about growth
spurts and acne problems caused by working in the forges,
and proper ﬂipper hygiene, and ﬁnally it was over.
‘Now, younglings,’ the instructor said. ‘What is the proper
name of our kind?’
‘Sea demons!’ one of them barked.
‘No. Anyone else?’
‘Telkhines!’ another monster growled.
‘Very good,’ the instructor said. ‘And why are we here?’
‘Revenge!’ several shouted.
‘Yes, yes, but why?’
‘Zeus is evil!’ one monster said. ‘He cast us into Tartarus
just because we used magic!’
‘Indeed,’ the instructor said. ‘After we made so many of
the gods’ ﬁnest weapons. The trident of Poseidon, for one.
And of course – we made the greatest weapon of the Titans!
Nevertheless, Zeus cast us away and relied on those
fumbling Cyclopes. That is why we are taking over the
forges of the usurper Hephaestus. And soon we will control
the undersea furnaces, our ancestral home!’
I clutched my pen-sword. These snarling things had
created Poseidon’s trident? What were they talking about?
I’d never even heard of a telkhine.
‘And so, younglings,’ the instructor continued, ‘who do we
serve?’
‘Kronos!’ they shouted.
‘And when you grow to be big telkhines, will you make
weapons for his army?’
‘Yes!’
‘Excellent. Now, we’ve brought in some scraps for you to
practise with. Let’s see how ingenious you are.’
There was a rush of movement and excited voices coming
towards the cart. I got ready to uncap Riptide. The tarp was
971
thrown back. I jumped up, my bronze sword springing to life
in my hands, and found myself facing a bunch of… dogs.
Well, their faces were dogs, anyway, with black snouts,
brown eyes and pointy ears. Their bodies were sleek and
black like sea mammals, with stubby legs that were half
ﬂipper, half foot, and humanlike hands with sharp claws. If
you blended together a kid, a Dobermann pinscher and a
sea lion, you’d get something like what I was looking at.
‘A demigod!’ one snarled.
‘Eat it!’ yelled another.
But that’s as far as they got before I slashed a wide arc
with Riptide and vaporized the entire front row of monsters.
‘Back oﬀ!’ I yelled at the rest, trying to sound ﬁerce.
Behind them stood their instructor – a two-metre-tall
telkhine with Dobermann fangs, snarling at me. I did my
best to stare him down.
‘New lesson, class,’ I announced. ‘Most monsters will
vaporize when sliced with a celestial bronze sword. This
change is perfectly normal, and will happen to you right now
if you don’t BACK OFF!’
To my surprise, it worked. The monsters backed up, but
there were at least twenty of them. My fear factor wasn’t
going to last long.
I jumped out of the cart, yelled, ‘CLASS DISMISSED!’ and
ran for the exit.
The monsters charged after me, barking and growling. I
hoped they couldn’t run very fast with those stubby little
legs and ﬂippers, but they waddled along pretty well. Thank
the gods there was a door in the tunnel leading out to the
main cavern. I slammed it shut and turned the wheel handle
to lock it, but I doubted it would keep them long.
I didn’t know what to do. Annabeth was out here
somewhere, 
invisible. 
Our 
chance 
for 
a 
subtle
reconnaissance mission had just been blown. I ran towards
the platform at the centre of the lava lake.
972
‘Annabeth!’ I yelled.
‘Shhh!’ An invisible hand clamped over my mouth and
wrestled me down behind a big bronze cauldron. ‘You want
to get us killed?’
I found her head and took oﬀ her Yankees cap. She
shimmered into existence in front of me, scowling, her face
streaked with ash and grime.
‘Percy, what is your problem?’
‘We’re going to have company!’ I explained quickly about
the monster orientation class. Her eyes widened.
‘So that’s what they are,’ she said. ‘Telkhines. I should’ve
known. And they’re making… Well, look.’
We peeked over the cauldron. In the centre of the platform
stood four sea demons, but these were fully grown, at least
two and a half metres tall. Their black skin glistened in the
ﬁrelight as they worked, sparks ﬂying as they took turns
hammering on a long piece of glowing hot metal.
‘The blade is almost complete,’ one said. ‘It needs another
cooling in blood to fuse the metals.’
‘Aye,’ a second said. ‘It shall be even sharper than before.’
‘What is that?’ I whispered.
Annabeth shook her head. ‘They keep talking about fusing
metals. I wonder –’
‘They were talking about the greatest Titan weapon,’ I
said. ‘And they… they said they made my father’s trident.’
‘The telkhines betrayed the gods,’ Annabeth said. ‘They
were practising dark magic. I don’t know what, exactly, but
Zeus banished them to Tartarus.’
‘With Kronos.’
She nodded. ‘We have to get out –’
No sooner had she said that than the door to the
classroom exploded and young telkhines came pouring out.
They stumbled over each other, trying to ﬁgure out which
way to charge.
‘Put your cap back on,’ I said. ‘Get out!’
‘What?’ Annabeth shrieked. ‘No! I’m not leaving you.’
973
‘I’ve got a plan. I’ll distract them. You can use the metal
spider – maybe it’ll lead you back to Hephaestus. You have
to tell him what’s going on.’
‘But you’ll be killed!’
‘I’ll be ﬁne. Besides, we’ve got no choice.’
Annabeth glared at me like she was going to punch me.
And then she did something that surprised me even more.
She kissed me.
‘Be careful, Seaweed Brain.’ She put on her hat and
vanished.
I probably would’ve sat there for the rest of the day,
staring at the lava and trying to remember what my name
was, but the sea demons jarred me back to reality.
‘There!’ one yelled. The entire class of telkhines charged
across the bridge towards me. I ran for the middle of the
platform, surprising the four elder sea demons so much they
dropped the red-hot blade. It was about two metres long
and curved like a crescent moon. I’d seen a lot of terrifying
things, but this unﬁnished whatever-it-was scared me the
most.
The elder demons got over their surprise quickly. There
were four ramps leading oﬀ the platform, and before I could
dash in any direction each of them had covered an exit.
The tallest one snarled, ‘What do we have here? A son of
Poseidon?’
‘Yes,’ another growled. ‘I can smell the sea in his blood.’
I raised Riptide. My heart was pounding.
‘Strike down one of us, demigod,’ the third demon said,
‘and the rest of us shall tear you to shreds. Your father
betrayed us. He took our gift and said nothing as we were
cast into the pit. We will see him sliced to pieces. He and all
the other Olympians.’
I wished I had a plan. I wished I hadn’t been lying to
Annabeth. I’d wanted her to get out safely, and I hoped
she’d been sensible enough to do it. But now it was dawning
on me that this might be the place I would die. No
974
prophecies for me. I would get overrun in the heart of a
volcano by a pack of dog-faced sea-lion people. The young
telkhines were at the platform now, too, snarling and
waiting to see how their four elders would deal with me.
I felt something burning against the side of my leg. The
ice whistle in my pocket was getting colder. If I ever needed
help, now was the time. But I hesitated. I didn’t trust
Quintus’s gift.
Before I could make up my mind the tallest telkhine said,
‘Let us see how strong he is. Let us see how long it takes
him to burn!’
He scooped some lava from the nearest furnace. It set his
ﬁngers ablaze, but this didn’t seem to bother him at all. The
other elder telkhines did the same. The ﬁrst one threw a
glop of molten rock at me and set my trousers on ﬁre. Two
more splattered across my chest. I dropped my sword in
sheer terror and swatted at my clothes. Fire was engulﬁng
me. Strangely, it felt only warm at ﬁrst, but it was getting
hotter by the instant.
‘Your father’s nature protects you,’ one said. ‘Makes you
hard to burn. But not impossible, youngling. Not impossible.’
They threw more lava at me and I remember screaming.
My whole body was on ﬁre. The pain was worse than
anything I’d ever felt. I was being consumed. I crumpled to
the metal ﬂoor and heard the sea demon children howling in
delight.
Then I remembered the voice of the river naiad at the
ranch: The water is within me.
I needed the sea. I felt a tugging sensation in my gut, but I
had nothing around to help me. Not a faucet or a river. Not
even a petriﬁed seashell this time. And, besides, the last
time I’d unleashed my power at the stables, there’d been
that scary moment when it had almost got away from me.
I had no choice. I called to the sea. I reached inside myself
and remembered the waves and the currents, the endless
power of the ocean. And I let it loose in one horrible scream.
975
Afterwards, I could never describe what happened. An
explosion, a tidal wave, a whirlwind of power simultaneously
catching me up and blasting me downwards into the lava.
Fire and water collided, superheated steam, and I shot up
from the heart of the volcano in a huge explosion, just one
piece of ﬂotsam thrown free by a million pounds of pressure.
The last thing I remember before losing consciousness was
ﬂying, ﬂying so high Zeus would never have forgiven me,
and then beginning to fall, smoke and ﬁre and water
streaming from me. I was a comet hurtling towards the
earth.
976
12    I Take a Permanent Vacation
 
I woke up feeling like I was still on ﬁre. My skin stung. My
throat felt as dry as sand.
I saw blue sky and trees above me. I heard a fountain
gurgling, and smelled juniper and cedar and a bunch of
other sweet-scented plants. I heard waves, too, gently
lapping on a rocky shore. I wondered if I were dead, but I
knew better. I’d been to the Land of the Dead, and there
was no blue sky.
I tried to sit up. My muscles felt like they were melting.
‘Stay still,’ a girl’s voice said. ‘You’re too weak to rise.’
She laid a cool cloth across my forehead. A bronze spoon
hovered over me and liquid was dribbled into my mouth.
The drink soothed my throat and left a warm chocolatey
aftertaste. Nectar of the gods. Then the girl’s face appeared
above me.
She had almond eyes and caramel-colour hair, braided
over one shoulder. She was… ﬁfteen? Sixteen? It was hard
to tell. She had one of those faces that just seemed
timeless. She began singing, and my pain dissolved. She
was working magic. I could feel her music sinking into my
skin, healing and repairing my burns.
‘Who?’ I croaked.
‘Shhh, brave one,’ she said. ‘Rest and heal. No harm will
come to you here. I am Calypso.’
The next time I woke I was in a cave, but as far as caves go
I’d been in a lot worse. The ceiling glittered with diﬀerent-
colour crystal formations – white and purple and green, like I
977
was inside one of those cut geodes you see in souvenir
shops. I was lying on a comfortable bed with feather pillows
and white cotton sheets. The cave was divided into sections
by white silk curtains. Against one wall stood a large loom
and a harp. Against the other wall were shelves neatly
stacked with jars of fruit preserves. Dried herbs hung from
the ceiling: rosemary, thyme and a bunch of other stuﬀ. My
mother could’ve named them all.
There was a ﬁreplace built into the cave wall, and a pot
bubbling over the ﬂames. It smelled great, like beef stew.
I sat up, trying to ignore the throbbing pain in my head. I
looked at my arms, sure that they would be hideously
scarred, but they seemed ﬁne. A little pinker than usual, but
not bad. I was wearing a white cotton T-shirt and cotton
drawstring trousers that weren’t mine. My feet were bare. In
a moment of panic, I wondered what had happened to
Riptide, but I felt in my pocket and there was my pen, right
where it always reappeared.
Not only that but the Stygian-ice dog whistle was back in
my pocket, too. Somehow it had followed me. And that
didn’t exactly reassure me.
With diﬃculty, I stood. The stone ﬂoor was freezing under
my feet. I turned and found myself staring into a polished
bronze mirror.
‘Holy Poseidon,’ I muttered. I looked as if I’d lost ten kilos I
couldn’t aﬀord to lose. My hair was a rat’s nest. It was
singed at the edges like Hephaestus’s beard. If I saw that
face on somebody walking down a highway intersection
asking for money, I would’ve locked the car doors.
I turned away from the mirror. The cave entrance was to
my left. I headed towards the daylight.
The cave opened onto a green meadow. On the left was
grove of cedar trees and on the right a huge ﬂower garden.
Four fountains gurgled in the meadow, each shooting water
from the pipes of stone satyrs. Straight ahead, the grass
sloped down to a rocky beach. The waves of a lake lapped
978
against the stones. I could tell it was a lake because… well, I
just could. Fresh water. Not salt. The sun sparkled on the
water, and the sky was pure blue. It seemed like a paradise,
which immediately made me nervous. You deal with
mythological stuﬀ for a few years, you learn that paradises
are usually places where you get killed.
The girl with the braided caramel hair, the one who’d
called herself Calypso, was standing at the beach, talking to
someone. I couldn’t see him very well in the shimmer from
the sunlight oﬀ the water, but they appeared to be arguing.
I tried to remember what I knew about Calypso from the old
myths. I’d heard the name before, but… I couldn’t
remember. Was she a monster? Did she trap heroes and kill
them? But if she were evil, why was I still alive?
I walked towards her slowly because my legs were still
stiﬀ. When the grass changed to gravel, I looked down to
keep my balance, and when I looked up again, the girl was
alone. She wore a white sleeveless Greek dress with a low
circular neckline trimmed in gold. She brushed at her eyes
like she’d just been crying.
‘Well,’ she said, trying for a smile, ‘the sleeper ﬁnally
awakes.’
‘Who were you talking to?’ My voice sounded like a frog
that had spent time in a microwave.
‘Oh… just a messenger,’ she said. ‘How do you feel?’
‘How long have I been out?’
‘Time,’ Calypso mused. ‘Time is always diﬃcult here. I
honestly don’t know, Percy.’
‘You know my name?’
‘You talk in your sleep.’
I blushed. ‘Yeah. I’ve been… uh, told that before.’
‘Yes. Who is Annabeth?’
‘Oh, uh. A friend. We were together when – wait, how did I
get here? Where am I?’
Calypso reached up and ran her ﬁngers through my
mangled hair. I stepped back nervously.
979
‘I’m sorry,’ she said. ‘I’ve just grown used to caring for
you. As to how you got here, you fell from the sky. You
landed in the water, just there.’ She pointed across the
beach. ‘I do not know how you survived. The water seemed
to cushion your fall. As to where you are, you are in Ogygia.’
She pronounced it like oh~jee~jee~ah.
‘Is that near Mount St Helens?’ I asked, because my
geography was pretty terrible.
Calypso laughed. It was a small, restrained laugh, like she
found me really funny but didn’t want to embarrass me. She
was cute when she laughed.
‘It isn’t near anything, brave one,’ she said. ‘Ogygia is my
phantom island. It exists by itself, anywhere and nowhere.
You can heal here in safety. Never fear.’
‘But my friends –’
‘Annabeth,’ she said. ‘And Grover and Tyson?’
‘Yes!’ I said. ‘I have to get back to them. They’re in
danger.’
She touched my face, and I didn’t back away this time.
‘Rest ﬁrst. You are no good to your friends until you heal.’
As soon as she said it, I realized how tired I was. ‘You’re
not… you’re not an evil sorceress, are you?’
She smiled coyly. ‘Why would you think that?’
‘Well, I met Circe once, and she had a pretty nice island,
too. Except she liked to turn men into guinea pigs.’
Calypso gave me that laugh again. ‘I promise I will not
turn you into a guinea pig.’
‘Or anything else?’
‘I am no evil sorceress,’ Calypso said. ‘And I am not your
enemy, brave one. Now rest. Your eyes are already closing.’
She was right. My knees buckled, and I would’ve landed
face-ﬁrst in the gravel if Calypso hadn’t caught me. Her hair
smelled like cinnamon. She was very strong, or maybe I was
just really weak and thin. She walked me back to a
cushioned bench by a fountain and helped me lie down.
980
‘Rest,’ she ordered. And I fell asleep to the sound of the
fountains and the smell of cinnamon and juniper.
The next time I awoke it was night, but I wasn’t sure if it was
the same night or many nights later. I was in the bed in the
cave, but I rose and wrapped a robe around myself and
padded outside. The stars were brilliant – thousands of
them, like you only see way out in the country. I could make
out all the constellations Annabeth had taught me:
Capricorn, Pegasus, Sagittarius. And there, near the
southern horizon, was a new constellation: the Huntress, a
tribute to a friend of ours who had died last winter.
‘Percy, what do you see?’
I brought my eyes back to earth. However amazing the
stars were, Calypso was twice as brilliant. I mean, I’ve seen
the goddess of love herself, Aphrodite, and I would never
say this out loud or she’d blast me to ashes, but, for my
money, Calypso was a lot more beautiful, because she just
seemed so natural, like she wasn’t trying to be beautiful and
didn’t even care about that. She just was. With her braided
hair and white dress, she seemed to glow in the moonlight.
She was holding a tiny plant in her hands. Its ﬂowers were
silver and delicate.
‘I was just looking at…’ I found myself staring at her face.
‘Uh… I forgot.’
She laughed gently. ‘Well, as long as you’re up, you can
help me plant these.’
She handed me a plant, which had a clump of earth and
roots at the base. The ﬂowers glowed as I held them.
Calypso picked up her gardening spade and directed me to
the edge of the garden, where she began to dig.
‘That’s moonlace,’ Calypso explained. ‘It can only be
planted at night.’
I watched the silvery light ﬂicker around the petals. ‘What
does it do?’
981
‘Do?’ Calypso mused. ‘It doesn’t really do anything, I
suppose. It lives, it gives light, it provides beauty. Does it
have to do anything else?’
‘I suppose not,’ I said.
She took the plant, and our hands met. Her ﬁngers were
warm. She planted the moonlace and stepped back,
surveying her work. ‘I love my garden.’
‘It’s awesome,’ I agreed. I mean, I wasn’t exactly a
gardening type, but Calypso had arbours covered with six
diﬀerent colours of roses, lattices ﬁlled with honeysuckle,
rows of grapevines bursting with red and purple grapes that
would’ve made Dionysus sit up and beg.
‘Back home,’ I said, ‘my mom always wanted a garden.’
‘Why did she not plant one?’
‘Well, we live in Manhattan. In an apartment.’
‘Manhattan? Apartment?’
I stared at her. ‘You don’t know what I’m talking about, do
you?’
‘I fear not. I haven’t left Ogygia in… a long time.’
‘Well, Manhattan’s a big city, with not much gardening
space.’
Calypso frowned. ‘That is sad. Hermes visits from time to
time. He tells me the world outside has changed greatly. I
did not realize it had changed so much you cannot have
gardens.’
‘Why haven’t you left your island?’
She looked down. ‘It is my punishment.’
‘Why? What did you do?’
‘I? Nothing. But I’m afraid my father did a great deal. His
name is Atlas.’
The name sent a shiver down my back. I’d met the Titan
Atlas last winter, and it had not been a happy time. He’d
tried to kill pretty much everyone I cared about.
‘Still,’ I said hesitantly, ‘it’s not fair to punish you for what
your father’s done. I knew another daughter of Atlas. Her
982
name was Zoë. She was one of the bravest people I’ve ever
met.’
Calypso studied me for a long time. Her eyes were sad.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
‘Are – are you healed yet, my brave one? Do you think
you’ll be ready to leave soon?’
‘What?’ I asked. ‘I don’t know.’ I moved my legs. They
were still stiﬀ. I was already getting dizzy from standing up
so long. ‘You want me to go?’
‘I…’ Her voice broke. ‘I’ll see you in the morning. Sleep
well.’
She ran oﬀ towards the beach. I was too confused to do
anything but watch until she disappeared in the dark.
I don’t know exactly how much time passed. Like Calypso
said, it was hard to keep track on the island. I knew I should
be leaving. At the very least, my friends would be worried.
At worst, they could be in serious danger. I didn’t even know
if Annabeth had made it out of the volcano. I tried to use my
empathy link with Grover several times, but I couldn’t make
contact. I hated not knowing if they were all right.
On the other hand, I really was weak. I couldn’t stay on
my feet more than a few hours. Whatever I’d done in Mount
St Helens had drained me like nothing else I’d ever
experienced.
I didn’t feel like a prisoner or anything. I remembered the
Lotus Hotel and Casino in Vegas, where I’d been lured into
this amazing game world until I almost forgot everything I
cared about. But the island of Ogygia wasn’t like that at all. I
thought about Annabeth, Grover and Tyson constantly. I
remembered exactly why I needed to leave. I just…
couldn’t. And then there was Calypso.
She never talked much about herself, but that just made
me want to know more. I would sit in the meadow, sipping
nectar, and I would try to concentrate on the ﬂowers or the
clouds or the reﬂections on the lake, but I was really staring
983
at Calypso as she worked, the way she brushed her hair
over her shoulder, and the little strand that fell in her face
whenever she knelt to dig in the garden. Sometimes she
would hold out her hand and birds would ﬂy out of the
woods to settle on her arm – lorikeets, parrots, doves. She
would say good morning to them, ask how it was going back
at the nest, and they would chirp for a while, then ﬂy oﬀ
cheerfully. Calypso’s eyes gleamed. She would look at me
and we’d share a smile, but almost immediately she’d get
that sad expression again and turn away. I didn’t understand
what was bothering her.
One night we were eating dinner together at the beach.
Invisible servants had set up a table with beef stew and
apple cider, which may not sound all that exciting, but that’s
because you haven’t tasted it. I hadn’t even noticed the
invisible servants when I ﬁrst got to the island, but after a
while I became aware of the beds making themselves,
meals cooking on their own, clothes being washed and
folded by unseen hands.
Anyway, Calypso and I were sitting at dinner, and she
looked beautiful in the candlelight. I was telling her about
New York and Camp Half-Blood, and then I starting telling
her about the time Grover had eaten an apple while we
were playing Hacky Sack with it. She laughed, showing oﬀ
her amazing smile, and our eyes met. Then she dropped her
gaze.
‘There it is again,’ I said.
‘What?’
‘You keep pulling away, like you’re trying not to enjoy
yourself.’
She kept her eyes on her glass of cider. ‘As I told you,
Percy, I have been punished. Cursed, you might say.’
‘How? Tell me. I want to help.’
‘Don’t say that. Please don’t say that.’
‘Tell me what the punishment is.’
984
She covered her half-ﬁnished stew with a napkin, and
immediately an invisible servant whisked the bowl away.
‘Percy, this island, Ogygia, is my home, my birthplace. But it
is also my prison. I am under… house arrest, I guess you
would call it. I will never visit this Manhattan of yours. Or
anywhere else. I am alone here.’
‘Because your father was Atlas.’
She nodded. ‘The gods do not trust their enemies. And
rightly so. I should not complain. Some of the prisons are
not nearly as nice as mine.’
‘But that’s not fair,’ I said. ‘Just because you’re related
doesn’t mean you support him. This other daughter I knew,
Zoë Nightshade – she fought against him. She wasn’t
imprisoned.’
‘But, Percy,’ Calypso said gently, ‘I did support him in the
ﬁrst war. He is my father.’
‘What? But the Titans are evil!’
‘Are they? All of them? All the time?’ She pursed her lips.
‘Tell me, Percy. I have no wish to argue with you. But do you
support the gods because they are good, or because they
are your family?’
I didn’t answer. She had a point. Last winter, after
Annabeth and I had saved Olympus, the gods Had had a
debate about whether or not they should kill me. That
hadn’t been exactly good. But, still, I felt like I supported
them because Poseidon was my dad.
‘Perhaps I was wrong in the war,’ Calypso said. ‘And, in
fairness, the gods have treated me well. They visit me from
time to time. They bring me word of the outside world. But
they can leave. And I cannot.’
‘You don’t have any friends?’ I asked. ‘I mean… wouldn’t
anyone else live here with you? It’s a nice place.’
A tear trickled down her cheek. ‘I… I promised myself I
wouldn’t speak of this. But –’
She was interrupted by a rumbling sound somewhere out
on the lake. A glow appeared on the horizon. It got brighter
985
and brighter, until I could see a column of ﬁre moving across
the surface of the water, coming towards us.
I stood and reached for my sword. ‘What is that?’
Calypso sighed. ‘A visitor.’
As the column of ﬁre reached the beach, Calypso stood
and bowed to it formally. The ﬂames dissipated, and
standing before us was a tall man in grey overalls and a
metal leg brace, his beard and hair smouldering with ﬁre.
‘Lord Hephaestus,’ Calypso said. ‘This is a rare honour.’
The ﬁre god grunted. ‘Calypso. Beautiful as always. Would
you excuse us, please, my dear? I need to have a word with
our young Percy Jackson.’
Hephaestus sat down clumsily at the dinner table and
ordered a Pepsi. The invisible servant brought him one,
opened it too suddenly and sprayed soda all over the god’s
work clothes. Hephaestus roared and spat a few curses and
swatted the can away.
‘Stupid servants,’ he muttered. ‘Good automatons are
what she needs. They never act up!’
‘Hephaestus,’ I said, ‘what’s going on? Is Annabeth –’
‘She’s ﬁne,’ he said. ‘Resourceful girl, that one. Found her
way back, told me the whole story. She’s worried sick, you
know.’
‘You haven’t told her I’m okay?’
‘That’s not for me to say,’ Hephaestus said. ‘Everyone
thinks you’re dead. I had to be sure you were coming back
before I started telling everyone where you were.’
‘What do you mean?’ I said. ‘Of course I’m coming back!’
Hephaestus studied me sceptically. He ﬁshed something
out of his pocket – a metal disc the size of an iPod. He
clicked a button and it expanded into a miniature bronze TV.
On the screen was news footage of Mount St Helens, a huge
plume of ﬁre and ash trailing into the sky.
‘Still uncertain about further eruptions,’ the newscaster
was saying, ‘authorities have ordered the evacuation of
986
almost half a million people as a precaution. Meanwhile, ash
has fallen as far away as Lake Tahoe and Vancouver, and
the entire Mount St Helens area is closed to traﬃc within a
hundred-mile radius. While no deaths have been reported,
minor injuries and illnesses include –’
Hephaestus switched it oﬀ. ‘You caused quite an
explosion.’
I stared at the blank bronze screen. Half a million people
evacuated? Injuries. Illness. What had I done?
‘The telkhines were scattered,’ the god told me. ‘Some
vaporized. Some got away, no doubt. I don’t think they’ll be
using my forge any time soon. On the other hand, neither
will I. The explosion caused Typhon to stir in his sleep. We’ll
have to wait and see –’
‘I couldn’t release him, could I? I mean, I’m not that
powerful!’
The god grunted. ‘Not that powerful, eh? Could have
fooled me. You’re the son of the Earthshaker, lad. You don’t
know your own strength.’
That’s the last thing I wanted him to say. I hadn’t been in
control of myself in that mountain. I’d released so much
energy I’d almost vaporized myself, drained all the life out
of me. Now I found out I’d nearly destroyed the Northwest
US and almost woken the most horrible monster ever
imprisoned by the gods. Maybe I was too dangerous. Maybe
it was safer for my friends to think I was dead.
‘What about Grover and Tyson?’ I asked.
Hephaestus shook his head. ‘No word, I’m afraid. I
suppose the Labyrinth has them.’
‘So what am I supposed to do?’
Hephaestus winced. ‘Don’t ever ask an old cripple for
advice, lad. But I’ll tell you this. You’ve met my wife?’
‘Aphrodite.’
‘That’s her. She’s a tricky one, lad. Be careful of love. It’ll
twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down
and right is wrong.’
987
I thought about my meeting with Aphrodite, in the back of
a white Cadillac in the desert last winter. She’d told me that
she had taken a special interest in me, and she’d be making
things hard for me in the romance department, just because
she liked me.
‘Is this part of her plan?’ I asked. ‘Did she land me here?’
‘Possibly. Hard to say with her. But if you decide to leave
this place – and I don’t say what’s right or wrong – then I
promised you an answer to your quest. I promised you the
way to Daedalus. Well now, here’s the thing. It has nothing
to do with Ariadne’s string. Not really. Sure, the string works.
That’s what the Titans’ army will be after. But the best way
through the maze… Theseus had the princess’s help. And
the princess was a regular mortal. Not a drop of god blood in
her. But she was clever, and she could see, lad. She could
see very clearly. So what I’m saying – I think you know how
to navigate the maze.’
It ﬁnally sank in. Why hadn’t I seen it before? Hera had
been right. The answer was there all the time.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Yeah, I know.’
‘Then you’ll need to decide whether or not you’re leaving.’
‘I…’ I wanted to say yes. Of course I would. But the words
stuck in my throat. I found myself looking out at the lake,
and suddenly the idea of leaving seemed very hard.
‘Don’t decide yet,’ Hephaestus advised. ‘Wait until
daybreak. Daybreak is a good time for decisions.’
‘Will Daedalus even help us?’ I asked. ‘I mean, if he gives
Luke a way to navigate the Labyrinth, we’re dead. I saw
dreams about… Daedalus killed his nephew. He turned bitter
and angry and –’
‘It isn’t easy being a brilliant inventor,’ Hephaestus
rumbled. ‘Always alone. Always misunderstood. Easy to turn
bitter, make horrible mistakes. People are more diﬃcult to
work with than machines. And when you break a person, he
can’t be ﬁxed.’
988
Hephaestus brushed the last drops of Pepsi oﬀ his work
clothes. ‘Daedalus started well enough. He helped the
Princess Ariadne and Theseus because he felt sorry for
them. He tried to do a good deed. And everything in his life
went bad because of it. Was that fair?’ The god shrugged. ‘I
don’t know if Daedalus will help you, lad, but don’t judge
someone until you’ve stood at his forge and worked with his
hammer, eh?’
‘I’ll – I’ll try.’
Hephaestus stood. ‘Goodbye, lad. You did well, destroying
the telkhines. I’ll always remember you for that.’
It sounded very ﬁnal, that goodbye. Then he erupted into
a column of ﬂame, and the ﬁre moved over the water,
heading back to the world outside.
I walked along the beach for several hours. When I ﬁnally
came back to the meadow, it was very late, maybe four or
ﬁve in the morning, but Calypso was still in her garden,
tending the ﬂowers by starlight. Her moonlace glowed
silver, and the other plants responded to the magic, glowing
red and yellow and blue.
‘He has ordered you to return,’ Calypso guessed.
‘Well, not ordered. He gave me a choice.’
Her eyes met mine. ‘I promised I would not oﬀer.’
‘Oﬀer what?’
‘For you to stay.’
‘Stay,’ I said. ‘Like… forever?’
‘You would be immortal on this island,’ she said quietly.
‘You would never age or die. You could leave the ﬁght to
others, Percy Jackson. You could escape your prophecy.’
I stared at her, stunned. ‘Just like that?’
She nodded. ‘Just like that.’
‘But… my friends.’
Calypso rose and took my hand. Her touch sent a warm
current through my body. ‘You asked about my curse, Percy.
I did not want to tell you. The truth is, the gods send me
989
companionship from time to time. Every thousand years or
so, they allow a hero to wash up on my shores, someone
who needs my help. I tend to him and befriend him, but it is
never random. The Fates make sure that the sort of hero
they send…’
Her voice trembled, and she had to stop.
I squeezed her hand tighter. ‘What? What have I done to
make you sad?’
‘They send a person who can never stay,’ she whispered.
‘Who can never accept my oﬀer of companionship for more
than a little while. They send me a hero I can’t help… just
the sort of person I can’t help falling in love with.’
The night was quiet except for the gurgle of the fountains
and waves lapping on the shore. It took me a long time to
realize what she was saying.
‘Me?’ I asked.
‘If you could see your face.’ She suppressed a smile,
though her eyes were still teary. ‘Of course, you.’
‘That’s why you’ve been pulling away all this time?’
‘I tried very hard. But I can’t help it. The Fates are cruel.
They sent you to me, my brave one, knowing that you would
break my heart.’
‘But… I’m just… I mean, I’m just me.’
‘That is enough,’ Calypso promised. ‘I told myself I would
not even speak of this. I would let you go without even
oﬀering. But I can’t. I suppose the Fates knew that, too. You
could stay with me, Percy. I’m afraid that is the only way you
could help me.’
I stared at the horizon. The ﬁrst red streaks of dawn were
lightening the sky. I could stay here forever, disappear from
the earth. I could live with Calypso, with invisible servants
tending to my every need. We could grow ﬂowers in the
garden and talk to songbirds and walk on the beach under
perfect blue skies. No war. No prophecy. No more taking
sides.
‘I can’t,’ I told her.
990
She looked down sadly.
‘I would never do anything to hurt you,’ I said, ‘but my
friends need me. I know how to help them now. I have to get
back.’
She picked a ﬂower from her garden – a sprig of silver
moonlace. Its glow faded as the sunrise came up. Daybreak
is a good time for decisions, Hephaestus had said. Calypso
tucked the ﬂower into my T-shirt pocket.
She stood on her tiptoes and kissed me on the forehead,
like a blessing. ‘Then come to the beach, my hero. And we
will send you on your way.’
The raft was a three-metre square of logs lashed together
with a pole for a mast and a simple white linen sail. It didn’t
look like it would be very seaworthy, or lakeworthy.
‘This will take you wherever you desire,’ Calypso
promised. ‘It is quite safe.’
I took her hand, but she let it slip out of mine.
‘Maybe I can visit you,’ I said.
She shook her head. ‘No man ever ﬁnds Ogygia twice,
Percy. When you leave, I will never see you again.’
‘But –’
‘Go, please.’ Her voice broke. ‘The Fates are cruel, Percy.
Just remember me.’ Then a little trace of her smile returned.
‘Plant a garden in Manhattan for me, will you?’
‘I promise.’ I stepped onto the raft. Immediately it began
to sail from the shore.
As I sailed into the lake I realized the Fates really were
cruel. They sent Calypso someone she couldn’t help but
love. But it worked both ways. For the rest of my life I would
be thinking about her. She would always be my biggest
what if.
Within minutes the island of Ogygia was lost in the mist. I
was sailing alone over the water towards the sunrise.
Then I told the raft what to do. I said the only place I could
think of, because I needed comfort and friends.
991
‘Camp Half-Blood,’ I said. ‘Sail me home.’
992
13    We Hire a New Guide
 
Hours later, my raft washed up at Camp Half-Blood. How I
got there, I have no idea. At some point the lake water just
changed to salt water. The familiar shoreline of Long Island
appeared up ahead, and a couple of friendly great white
sharks surfaced and steered me towards the beach.
When I landed, the camp seemed deserted. It was late
afternoon, but the archery range was empty. The climbing
wall poured lava and rumbled all by itself. Pavilion: nothing.
Cabins: all vacant. Then I noticed smoke rising from the
amphitheatre. Too early for a campﬁre, and I didn’t think
they were roasting marshmallows. I ran towards it.
Before I even got there I heard Chiron making an
announcement. When I realized what he was saying, I
stopped in my tracks.
‘– assume he is dead,’ Chiron said. ‘After so long a silence,
it is unlikely our prayers will be answered. I have asked his
best surviving friend to do the ﬁnal honours.’
I crept up the back of the amphitheatre. Nobody noticed
me. They were all looking forward, watching as Annabeth
took a long green silk burial cloth, embroidered with a
trident, and set it on the ﬂames. They were burning my
shroud.
Annabeth turned to face the audience. She looked terrible.
Her eyes were puﬀy from crying, but she managed to say,
‘He was probably the bravest friend I’ve ever had. He…’
Then she saw me. Her face went blood red. ‘He’s right
there!’
Heads turned. People gasped.
993
‘Percy!’ Beckendorf grinned. A bunch of other kids
crowded around me and clapped me on the back. I heard a
few curses from the Ares cabin, but Clarisse just rolled her
eyes, like she couldn’t believe I’d had the nerve to survive.
Chiron cantered over and everyone made way for him.
‘Well,’ he sighed with obvious relief. ‘I don’t believe I’ve
ever been happier to see a camper return. But you must tell
me –’
‘WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?’ Annabeth interrupted, shoving
aside the other campers. I thought she was going to punch
me, but instead she hugged me so ﬁercely she nearly
cracked my ribs. The other campers fell silent. Annabeth
seemed to realize she was making a scene and pushed me
away. ‘I – we thought you were dead, Seaweed Brain!’
‘I’m sorry,’ I said. ‘I got lost.’
‘LOST?’ she yelled. ‘Two weeks, Percy? Where in the world
–’
‘Annabeth,’ Chiron interrupted. ‘Perhaps we should
discuss this somewhere more private, shall we? The rest of
you, back to your normal activities!’
Without waiting for us to protest, he picked up Annabeth
and me as easily as if we were kittens, slung us both onto
his back and galloped oﬀ towards the Big House.
∗  ∗  ∗
 
I didn’t tell them the whole story. I just couldn’t bring myself
to talk about Calypso. I explained how I’d caused the
explosion at Mount St Helens and got blasted out of the
volcano. I told them I’d been marooned on an island. Then
Hephaestus had found me and told me I could leave. A
magic raft had carried me back to camp.
All that was true, but as I said it my palms felt sweaty.
‘You’ve been gone two weeks.’ Annabeth’s voice was
steadier now, but she still looked pretty shaken up. ‘When I
heard the explosion, I thought –’
994
‘I know,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry. But I ﬁgured out how to get
through the Labyrinth. I talked to Hephaestus.’
‘He told you the answer?’
‘Well, he sort of told me that I already knew. And I do. I
understand now.’
I told them my idea.
Annabeth’s jaw dropped. ‘Percy, that’s crazy!’
Chiron sat back in his wheelchair and stroked his beard.
‘There is a precedent, however. Theseus had the help of
Ariadne. Harriet Tubman, daughter of Hermes, used many
mortals on her Underground Railroad for just this reason.’
‘But this is my quest,’ Annabeth said. ‘I need to lead it.’
Chiron looked uncomfortable. ‘My dear, it is your quest.
But you need help.’
‘And this is supposed to help? Please! It’s wrong. It’s
cowardly. It’s –’
‘Hard to admit we need a mortal’s help,’ I said. ‘But it’s
true.’
Annabeth glared at me. ‘You are the single most annoying
person I have ever met!’ And she stormed out of the room.
I stared at the doorway. I felt like hitting something. ‘So
much for being the bravest friend she’s ever had.’
‘She will calm down,’ Chiron promised. ‘She’s jealous, my
boy.’
‘That’s stupid. She’s not… it’s not like…’
Chiron chuckled. ‘It hardly matters. Annabeth is very
territorial about her friends, in case you haven’t noticed.
She was quite worried about you. And now that you’re back,
I think she suspects where you were marooned.’
I met his eyes, and I knew Chiron had guessed about
Calypso. It was hard to hide anything from a guy who’s been
training heroes for three thousand years. He’s pretty much
seen it all.
‘We won’t dwell on your choices,’ Chiron said. ‘You came
back. That is what matters.’
‘Tell that to Annabeth.’
995
Chiron smiled. ‘In the morning I will have Argus take the
two of you into Manhattan. You might stop by your mother’s,
Percy. She is… understandably distraught.’
My heart skipped a beat. All that time on Calypso’s island,
I’d never even thought how my mom would be feeling.
She’d think I was dead. She’d be devastated. What was
wrong with me that I hadn’t even considered her?
‘Chiron,’ I said, ‘what about Grover and Tyson? Do you
think –’
‘I don’t know, my boy.’ Chiron gazed into the empty
ﬁreplace. ‘Juniper is quite distressed. All her branches are
turning yellow. The Council of Cloven Elders have revoked
Grover’s searcher’s licence in absentia. Assuming he comes
back alive, they will force him into a shameful exile.’ He
sighed. ‘Grover and Tyson are very resourceful, however. We
can still hope.’
‘I shouldn’t have let them run oﬀ.’
‘Grover has his own destiny, and Tyson was brave to
follow him. You would know if Grover was in mortal danger,
don’t you think?’
‘I suppose. The empathy link. But –’
‘There is something else I should tell you, Percy,’ he said.
‘Actually two unpleasant things.’
‘Great.’
‘Chris Rodriguez, our guest…’
I remembered what I’d seen in the basement, Clarisse
trying to talk to him while he babbled about the Labyrinth.
‘Is he dead?’
‘Not yet,’ Chiron said grimly. ‘But he’s much worse. He’s in
the inﬁrmary now, too weak to move. I had to order Clarisse
back to her regular schedule, because she was at his
bedside constantly. He doesn’t respond to anything. He
won’t take food or drink. None of my medicines help. He has
simply lost the will to live.’
I shuddered. Despite all the run-ins I’d had with Clarisse, I
felt horrible for her. She’d tried so hard to help him. And now
996
that I’d been in the Labyrinth, I could understand why it had
been so easy for the ghost of Minos to drive Chris mad. If I’d
been wandering around down there alone, without my
friends to help, I’d never have made it out.
‘I’m sorry to say,’ Chiron continued, ‘the other news is less
pleasant still. Quintus has disappeared.’
‘Disappeared? How?’
‘Three nights ago he slipped into the Labyrinth. Juniper
watched him go. It appears you may have been right about
him.’
‘He’s a spy for Luke.’ I told Chiron about the Triple G
Ranch – how Quintus had bought his scorpions there and
Geryon had been supplying Kronos’s army. ‘It can’t be a
coincidence.’
Chiron sighed heavily. ‘So many betrayals. I had hoped
Quintus would prove a friend. It seems my judgement was
bad.’
‘What about Mrs O’Leary?’ I asked.
‘The hellhound is still in the arena. It won’t let anyone
approach. I did not have the heart to force it into a cage… or
destroy it.’
‘Quintus wouldn’t just leave her.’
‘As I said, Percy, we seem to have been wrong about him.
Now, you should prepare yourself for the morning. You and
Annabeth still have much to do.’
I left him in his wheelchair, staring sadly into the ﬁreplace.
I wondered how many times he’d sat here, waiting for
heroes that never came back.
Before dinner I stopped by the sword arena. Sure enough,
Mrs O’Leary was curled up in an enormous black furry
mound in the middle of the stadium, chewing halfheartedly
on the head of a warrior dummy.
When she saw me, she barked and came bounding
towards me. I thought I was dead meat. I just had time to
say, ‘Whoa!’ before she bowled me over and started licking
997
my face. Now usually, being the son of Poseidon and all, I
only get wet if I want to, but my powers apparently did not
extend to dog saliva, because I got a pretty good bath.
‘Whoa, girl!’ I yelled. ‘Can’t breathe. Lemme up!’
Eventually I managed to get her oﬀ me. I scratched her
ears and found her an extra-gigantic dog biscuit.
‘Where’s your master?’ I asked her. ‘How could he just
leave you, huh?’
She whimpered like she wanted to know that, too. I was
ready to believe Quintus was an enemy, but still I couldn’t
understand why he’d leave Mrs O’Leary behind. If there was
one thing I was sure of, it was that he really cared for his
megadog.
I was thinking about that and towelling the dog spit oﬀ my
face when a girl’s voice said, ‘You’re lucky she didn’t bite
your head oﬀ.’
Clarisse was standing at the other end of the arena with
her sword and shield. ‘Came here to practise yesterday,’ she
grumbled. ‘Dog tried to chew me up.’
‘She’s an intelligent dog,’ I said.
‘Funny.’
She walked towards us. Mrs O’Leary growled, but I patted
her on the head and calmed her down.
‘Stupid hellhound,’ Clarisse said. ‘Not going to keep me
from practising.’
‘I heard about Chris,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry.’
Clarisse paced a circle around the arena. When she came
to the nearest dummy, she attacked viciously, chopping its
head oﬀ with a single blow and driving her sword through its
guts. She pulled the sword out and kept walking.
‘Yeah, well. Sometimes things go wrong.’ Her voice was
shaky. ‘Heroes get hurt. They… they die, and the monsters
just keep coming back.’
She picked up a javelin and threw it across the arena. It
nailed a dummy straight between the eyeholes of its
helmet.
998
She had called Chris a hero, like he had never gone over
to the Titans’ side. It reminded me of the way Annabeth
sometimes talked about Luke. I decided not to bring that up.
‘Chris was brave,’ I said. ‘I hope he gets better.’
She glared at me as if I were her next target. Mrs O’Leary
growled.
‘Do me a favour,’ Clarisse told me.
‘Yeah, sure.’
‘If you ﬁnd Daedalus, don’t trust him. Don’t ask him for
help. Just kill him.’
‘Clarisse –’
‘Because anybody who can make something like the
Labyrinth, Percy? That person is evil. Plain evil.’
For a second she reminded me of Eurytion the cowherd,
her much older half-brother. She had the same hard look in
her eyes, as if she’d been used for the past two thousand
years and was getting tired of it. She sheathed her sword.
‘Practice time is over. From now on, it’s for real.’
That night I slept in my own bunk, and for the ﬁrst time
since Calypso’s Island, dreams found me.
I was in a king’s courtroom – a big white chamber with
marble columns and a wooden throne. Sitting on it was a
plump guy with curly red hair and a crown of laurels. At his
side stood three girls who looked like his daughters. They all
had his red hair and were dressed in blue robes.
The doors creaked open and a herald announced, ‘Minos,
King of Crete!’
I tensed, but the man on the throne just smiled at his
daughters. ‘I can’t wait to see the expression on his face.’
Minos, the royal creep himself, swept into the room. He
was so tall and serious he made the other king look silly.
Minos’s pointed beard had gone grey. He looked thinner
than the last time I’d dreamed of him, and his sandals were
spattered with mud, but the same cruel light shone in his
eyes.
999
He bowed stiﬄy to the man on the throne. ‘King Cocalus. I
understand you have solved my little riddle?’
Cocalus smiled. ‘Hardly little, Minos. Especially when you
advertise across the world that you are willing to pay a
thousand gold talents to the one who can solve it. Is the
oﬀer genuine?’
Minos clapped his hands. Two buﬀ guards walked in,
struggling with a big wooden crate. They set it at Cocalus’s
feet and opened it. Stacks of gold bars glittered. It had to be
worth, like, a gazillion dollars.
Cocalus 
whistled 
appreciatively. 
‘You 
must 
have
bankrupted your kingdom for such a reward, my friend.’
‘That is not your concern.’
Cocalus shrugged. ‘The riddle was quite simple, really.
One of my retainers solved it.’
‘Father,’ one of the girls warned. She looked like the oldest
– a little taller than her sisters.
Cocalus ignored her. He took a spiral seashell from the
folds of his robe. A silver string had been threaded through
it, so it hung like a huge bead on a necklace.
Minos stepped forward and took the shell. ‘One of your
retainers, you say? How did he thread the string without
breaking the shell?’
‘He used an ant, if you can believe it. Tied a silk string to
the little creature and coaxed it through the shell by putting
honey at the far end.’
‘Ingenious man,’ Minos said.
‘Oh, indeed. My daughters’ tutor. They are quite fond of
him.’
Minos’s eyes turned cold. ‘I would be careful of that.’
I wanted to warn Cocalus: Don’t trust this guy! Throw him
in the dungeon with some man-eating lions or something!
But the redheaded king just chuckled. ‘Not to worry, Minos.
My daughters are wise beyond their years. Now, about my
gold –’
1000
‘Yes,’ Minos said. ‘But, you see, the gold is for the man
who solved the riddle. And there can be only one such man.
You are harbouring Daedalus.’
Cocalus shifted uncomfortably on his throne. ‘How is it
that you know his name?’
‘He is a thief,’ Minos said. ‘He once worked in my court,
Cocalus. He turned my own daughter against me. He helped
a usurper make a fool of me in my own palace. And then he
escaped justice. I have been pursuing him for ten years.’
‘I knew nothing of this. But I have oﬀered the man my
protection. He has been a most useful –’
‘I oﬀer you a choice,’ Minos said. ‘Turn over the fugitive to
me, and this gold is yours. Or risk making me your enemy.
You do not want Crete as your enemy.’
Cocalus paled. I thought it was stupid for him to look so
scared in the middle of his own throne room. He should’ve
summoned his army or something. Minos only had two
guards. But Cocalus just sat there, sweating, on his throne.
‘Father,’ his oldest daughter said, ‘you can’t –’
‘Silence, Aelia.’ Cocalus twisted his beard. He looked again
at the glittering gold. ‘This pains me, Minos. The gods do not
love a man who breaks his oath of hospitality.’
‘The gods do not love those who harbour criminals,
either.’
Cocalus nodded. ‘Very well. You shall have your man in
chains.’
‘Father!’ Aelia said again. Then she caught herself, and
changed her voice to a sweeter tone. ‘At – at least let us
feast with our guest ﬁrst. After his long journey, he should
be treated to a hot bath, new clothes and a decent meal. I
would be honoured to draw the bath myself.’
She smiled prettily at Minos, and the old king grunted. ‘I
suppose a bath would not be amiss.’ He looked at Cocalus. ‘I
will see you at dinner, my lord. With the prisoner.’
‘This way, Your Majesty,’ said Aelia. She and her sisters
led Minos out of the chamber.
1001
I followed them into a bath chamber decorated with
mosaic tiles. Steam ﬁlled the air. A running-water faucet
poured hot water into the tub. Aelia and her sisters ﬁlled it
with rose petals and something that must’ve been Ancient
Greek Mr Bubble, because soon the water was covered with
multicoloured foam. The girls turned aside as Minos dropped
his robes and slipped into the bath.
‘Ahh.’ He smiled. ‘An excellent bath. Thank you, my dears.
The journey has been long indeed.’
‘You have been chasing your prey ten years, my lord?’
Aelia asked, batting her eyelashes. ‘You must be very
determined.’
‘I never forget a debt.’ Minos grinned. ‘Your father was
wise to agree to my demands.’
‘Oh, indeed, my lord!’ Aelia said. I thought she was laying
on the ﬂattery pretty thick, but the old guy was eating it up.
Aelia’s sisters trickled scented oil over the king’s head.
‘You know, my lord,’ Aelia said, ‘Daedalus thought you
would come. He thought the riddle might be a trap, but he
couldn’t resist solving it.’
Minos frowned. ‘Daedalus spoke to you about me?’
‘Yes, my lord.’
‘He is a bad man, princess. My own daughter fell under his
spell. Do not listen to him.’
‘He is a genius,’ Aelia said. ‘And he believes a woman is
just as smart as a man. He was the ﬁrst ever to teach us as
if we had minds of our own. Perhaps your daughter felt the
same way.’
Minos tried to sit up, but Aelia’s sisters pushed him back
into the water. Aelia came up behind him. She held three
tiny orbs in her palm. At ﬁrst I thought they were bath
beads, but she threw them in the water and the beads
sprouted bronze threads that began wrapping themselves
around the king, tying him up at the ankles, binding his
wrists to his sides, circling his neck. Even though I hated
Minos, it was pretty horrible to watch. He thrashed and cried
1002
out, but the girls were much stronger. Soon he was helpless,
lying in the bath with his chin just above the water. The
bronze strands were still wrapping themselves around him
like a cocoon, tightening across his body.
‘What do you want?’ Minos demanded. ‘Why do you do
this?’
Aelia smiled. ‘Daedalus has been kind to us, Your Majesty.
And I do not like you threatening our father.’
‘You tell Daedalus,’ Minos growled. ‘You tell him I will
hound him even after death! If there is any justice in the
Underworld, my soul will haunt him for eternity!’
‘Brave words, Your Majesty,’ Aelia said. ‘I wish you luck
ﬁnding your justice in the Underworld.’
And with that, the bronze threads wrapped themselves
around Minos’s face, making him a bronze mummy.
The door of the bathhouse opened. Daedalus stepped in,
carrying a traveller’s bag.
He’d trimmed his hair short. His beard was pure white. He
looked frail and sad, but he reached down and touched the
mummy’s forehead. The threads unravelled and sank to the
bottom of the tub. There was nothing inside them. It was as
if King Minos had just dissolved.
‘A painless death,’ Daedalus mused. ‘More than he
deserved. Thank you, my princesses.’
Aelia hugged him. ‘You cannot stay here, teacher. When
our father ﬁnds out –’
‘Yes,’ Daedalus said. ‘I fear I have brought you trouble.’
‘Oh, do not worry for us. Father will be happy enough taking
that old man’s gold. And Crete is a very long way away. But
he will blame you for Minos’s death. You must ﬂee to
somewhere safe.’
‘Somewhere safe,’ the old man repeated. ‘For years I have
ﬂed from kingdom to kingdom, looking for somewhere safe.
I fear Minos told the truth. Death will not stop him from
hounding me. There is no place under the sun that will
harbour me, once word of this crime gets out.’
1003
‘Then where will you go?’ Aelia said.
‘A place I swore never to enter again,’ Daedalus said. ‘My
prison may be my only sanctuary.’
‘I do not understand,’ Aelia said.
‘It’s best you do not.’
‘But what of the Underworld?’ one of her sisters asked.
‘Terrible judgement will await you! Every man must die.’
‘Perhaps,’ Daedalus said. Then he brought a scroll from his
travelling bag – the same scroll I’d seen in my last dream,
with his nephew’s notes. ‘Or perhaps not.’
He patted Aelia’s shoulder, then blessed her and her
sisters. He looked down once more at the coppery threads
glinting in the bottom of the bath. ‘Find me if you dare, king
of ghosts.’
He turned towards the mosaic wall and touched a tile. A
glowing mark appeared – a Greek Δ – and the wall slid aside.
The princesses gasped.
‘You never told us of secret passages!’ Aelia said. ‘You
have been busy.’
‘The Labyrinth has been busy,’ Daedalus corrected her.
‘Do not try to follow me, my dears, if you value your sanity.’
My dream shifted. I was underground in a stone chamber.
Luke and another half-blood warrior were studying a map by
ﬂashlight.
Luke cursed. ‘It should’ve been the last turn.’ He crumpled
up the map and tossed it aside.
‘Sir!’ his companion protested.
‘Maps are useless here,’ Luke said. ‘Don’t worry. I’ll ﬁnd it.’
‘Sir, is it true that the larger the group –’
‘The more likely you’ll get lost? Yes, that’s true. Why do
you think we sent out solo explorers to begin with? But don’t
worry. As soon as we have the thread, we can lead the
vanguard through.’
‘But how will we get the thread?’
1004
Luke stood, ﬂexing his ﬁngers. ‘Oh, Quintus will come
through. All we have to do is reach the arena, and it’s at a
juncture. Impossible to get anywhere without passing it.
That’s why we must have a truce with its master. We just
have to stay alive until –’
‘Sir!’ a new voice came from the corridor. Another guy in
Greek armour ran forward, carrying a torch. ‘The dracaenae
found a half-blood!’
Luke scowled. ‘Alone? Wandering the maze?’
‘Yes, sir! You’d better come quick. They’re in the next
chamber. They’ve got him cornered.’
‘Who is it?’
‘No one I’ve ever seen before, sir.’
Luke nodded. ‘A blessing from Kronos. We may be able to
use this half-blood. Come!’
They ran down the corridor, and I woke with a start,
staring into the dark. A lone half-blood, wandering in the
maze. It was a long time before I got to sleep again.
The next morning I made sure Mrs O’Leary had enough dog
biscuits. I asked Beckendorf to keep an eye on her, which he
didn’t seem too happy about. Then I hiked over Half-Blood
Hill and met Annabeth and Argus on the road.
Annabeth and I didn’t talk much in the van. Argus never
spoke, probably because he had eyes all over his body,
including – so I’d heard – at the tip of his tongue, and he
didn’t like to show that oﬀ.
Annabeth looked queasy, as if she’d slept even worse
than me.
‘Bad dreams?’ I asked at last.
She shook her head. ‘An Iris-message from Eurytion.’
‘Eurytion! Is something wrong with Nico?’
‘He left the ranch last night, heading back into the maze.’
‘What? Didn’t Eurytion try to stop him?’
‘Nico was gone before he woke up. Orthus tracked his
scent as far as the cattle grid. Eurytion said he’d been
1005
hearing Nico talk to himself the last few nights. Only now he
thinks Nico was talking with the ghost again, Minos.’
‘He’s in danger,’ I said.
‘No kidding. Minos is one of the judges of the dead, but
he’s got a vicious streak a mile wide. I don’t know what he
wants with Nico, but –’
‘That’s not what I meant,’ I said. ‘I had this dream last
night…’ I told her about Luke, how he’d mentioned Quintus,
and how his men had found a half-blood alone in the maze.
Annabeth’s jaw clenched. ‘That’s very, very bad.’
‘So what do we do?’
She raised an eyebrow. ‘Well, it’s a good thing you have a
plan to guide us, huh?’
It was Saturday, and traﬃc was heavy going into the city.
We arrived at my mom’s apartment around noon. When she
answered the door, she gave me a hug only a little less
overwhelming than having a hellhound jump on you.
‘I told them you were all right,’ my mom said, but she
sounded like the weight of the sky had just been lifted oﬀ
her shoulders – and, believe me, I know ﬁrst hand how that
feels.
She sat us down at the kitchen table and insisted on
feeding us her special blue chocolate-chip cookies while we
ﬁlled her in on the quest. As usual, I tried to water down the
frightening parts (which was pretty much everything), but
somehow that just made it sound more dangerous.
When I got to the part about Geryon and the stables, my
mom pretended like she was going to strangle me. ‘I can’t
get him to clean his room, but he’ll clean a hundred tons of
horse manure out of some monster’s stables!’
Annabeth laughed. It was the ﬁrst time I’d heard her laugh
in a long time, and it was nice to hear.
‘So,’ my mom said when I was done with the story, ‘you
wrecked Alcatraz Island, made Mount St Helens explode and
1006
displaced half a million people, but at least you’re safe.’
That’s my mom, always looking on the bright side.
‘Yep,’ I agreed. ‘That pretty much covers it.’
‘I wish Paul were here,’ she said, half to herself. ‘He
wanted to talk to you.’
‘Oh, right. The school.’
So much had happened since then that I’d almost
forgotten about the high school orientation at Goode – the
fact I’d left the band hall in ﬂames, and my mom’s boyfriend
had last seen me jumping through a window like a fugitive.
‘What did you tell him?’ I asked.
My mom shook her head. ‘What could I say? He knows
something is diﬀerent about you, Percy. He’s a smart man.
He believes that you’re not a bad person. He doesn’t know
what’s going on, but the school is pressuring him. After all,
he got you admitted there. He needs to convince them the
ﬁre wasn’t your fault, and, since you ran away, that looks
bad.’
Annabeth 
was 
studying 
me. 
She 
looked 
pretty
sympathetic. I knew she’d been in similar situations. It’s
never easy for a half-blood in the mortal world.
‘I’ll talk to him,’ I promised. ‘After we’re done with the
quest. I’ll even tell him the truth if you want.’
My mom put her hand on my shoulder. ‘You would do
that?’
‘Well, yeah. I mean, he’ll think we’re crazy.’
‘He already thinks that.’
‘Then there’s nothing to lose.’
‘Thank you, Percy. I’ll tell him you’ll be home…’ She
frowned. ‘When? What happens now?’
Annabeth broke her cookie in half. ‘Percy has this plan.’
Reluctantly I told my mom.
She nodded slowly. ‘It sounds very dangerous. But it might
work.’
‘You have the same abilities, don’t you?’ I asked. ‘You can
see through the Mist.’
1007
My mom sighed. ‘Not so much now. When I was younger it
was easier. But, yes, I’ve always been able to see more than
was good for me. It’s one of the things that caught your
father’s attention, when we ﬁrst met. Just be careful.
Promise me you’ll be safe.’
‘We’ll try, Ms Jackson,’ Annabeth said. ‘Keeping your son
safe is a big job, though.’ She folded her arms and glared
out of the kitchen window. I picked at my napkin and tried
not to say anything.
My mom frowned. ‘What’s going on with you two? Have
you been ﬁghting?’
Neither of us said anything.
‘I see,’ my mom said, and I wondered if she could see
through more than just the Mist. It sounded like she
understood what was going on with Annabeth and me, but I
sure as heck didn’t. ‘Well, remember,’ she said, ‘Grover and
Tyson are counting on you two.’
‘I know,’ Annabeth and I said at the same time, which
embarrassed me even more.
My mom smiled. ‘Percy, you’d better use the phone in the
hall. Good luck.’
I was relieved to get out of the kitchen, even though I was
nervous about what I was about to do. I went to the phone
and placed the call. The number had washed oﬀ my hand a
long time ago, but that was okay. Without meaning to, I’d
memorized it.
We arranged a meeting in Times Square. We found Rachel
Elizabeth Dare in front of the Marriott Marquis, and she was
painted gold completely.
I mean her face, her hair, her clothes – everything. She
looked like she’d been touched by King Midas. She was
standing like a statue with ﬁve other kids all painted
metallic – copper, bronze, silver. They were frozen in
diﬀerent poses while tourists hustled past or stopped to
1008
stare. Some passers-by threw money at the tarp on the
sidewalk.
The sign at Rachel’s feet said, urban art for kids,
donations appreciated.
Annabeth and I stood there for, like, ﬁve minutes, staring
at Rachel, but if she noticed us she didn’t let on. She didn’t
move or even blink as far as I could see. Being ADHD and
all, I could not have done that. Standing still that long
would’ve driven me crazy. It was weird to see Rachel in gold,
too. She looked like a statue of somebody famous, an
actress or something. Only her eyes were normal green.
‘Maybe if we push her over,’ Annabeth suggested.
I thought that was a little mean, but Rachel didn’t
respond. After another few minutes, a kid in silver walked up
from the hotel taxi stand, where he’d been taking a break.
He took a pose like he was lecturing the crowd, right next to
Rachel. Rachel unfroze and stepped oﬀ the tarp.
‘Hey, Percy.’ She grinned. ‘Good timing! Let’s get some
coﬀee.’
We walked down to a place called the Java Moose on West
43rd. Rachel ordered an Espresso Extreme, the kind of stuﬀ
Grover would like. Annabeth and I got fruit smoothies and
we sat at a table right under the stuﬀed moose. Nobody
even looked twice at Rachel in her golden outﬁt.
‘So,’ she said. ‘It’s Annabelle, right?’
‘Annabeth,’ Annabeth corrected her. ‘Do you always dress
in gold?’
‘Not usually,’ Rachel said. ‘We’re raising money for our
group. We do volunteer art projects for elementary kids
’cause they’re cutting art from the schools, you know? We
do this once a month, take in about ﬁve hundred dollars on
a good weekend. But I’m guessing you don’t want to talk
about that. You’re a half-blood, too?’
‘Shhh!’ Annabeth said, looking around. ‘Just announce it
to the world, how about?’
1009
‘Okay.’ Rachel stood up and said, really loud, ‘Hey,
everybody! These two aren’t human! They’re half Greek
god!’
Nobody even looked over. Rachel shrugged and sat down.
‘They don’t seem to care.’
‘That’s not funny,’ Annabeth said. ‘This isn’t a joke, mortal
girl.’
‘Hold it, you two,’ I said. ‘Just calm down.’
‘I’m calm,’ Rachel insisted. ‘Every time I’m around you,
some monster attacks us. What’s to be nervous about?’
‘Look,’ I said, ‘I’m sorry about the band room. I hope they
didn’t kick you out or anything.’
‘Nah. They asked me a lot of questions about you. I played
dumb.’
‘Was it hard?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Okay, stop!’ I intervened. ‘Rachel, we’ve got a problem.
And we need your help.’
Rachel narrowed her eyes at Annabeth. ‘You need my
help?’
Annabeth stirred her straw in her smoothie. ‘Yeah,’ she
said sullenly. ‘Maybe.’
I told Rachel about the Labyrinth, and how we needed to
ﬁnd Daedalus. I told her what had happened the last few
times we’d gone in.
‘So you want me to guide you,’ she said. ‘Through a place
I’ve never been.’
‘You can see through the Mist,’ I said. ‘Just like Ariadne.
I’m betting you can see the right path. The Labyrinth won’t
be able to fool you as easily.’
‘And if you’re wrong?’
‘Then we’ll get lost. Either way, it’ll be dangerous. Very,
very dangerous.’
‘I could die?’
‘Yeah.’
‘I thought you said monsters don’t care about mortals.
That sword of yours –’
1010
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Celestial bronze doesn’t hurt mortals. Most
monsters would ignore you. But Luke… he doesn’t care.
He’ll use mortals, demigods, monsters, whatever. And he’ll
kill anyone who gets in his way.’
‘Nice guy,’ Rachel said.
‘He’s under the inﬂuence of a Titan,’ Annabeth said
defensively. ‘He’s been deceived.’
Rachel looked back and forth between us. ‘Okay,’ she
said, ‘I’m in.’
I blinked. I hadn’t ﬁgured it would be so easy. ‘Are you
sure?’
‘Hey, my summer was going to be boring. This is the best
oﬀer I’ve had yet. So what do I look for?’
‘We have to ﬁnd an entrance to the Labyrinth,’ Annabeth
said. ‘There’s an entrance at Camp Half-Blood, but you can’t
go there. It’s oﬀ-limits to mortals.’
She said mortals like it was some sort of terrible condition,
but Rachel just nodded. ‘Okay. What does an entrance to the
Labyrinth look like?’
‘It could be anything,’ Annabeth said. ‘A section of wall. A
boulder. A doorway. A sewer entrance. But it would have the
mark of Daedalus on it. A Greek Delta, glowing in blue.’
‘Like this?’ Rachel drew the symbol Δ in water on our
table.
‘That’s it,’ Annabeth said. ‘You know Greek?’
‘No,’ Rachel said. She pulled a big blue plastic hairbrush
from her pocket and started brushing the gold out of her
hair. ‘Let me get changed. You’d better come with me to the
Marriott.’
‘Why?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Because there’s an entrance like that in the hotel
basement, where we store our costumes. It’s got the mark
of Daedalus.’
1011
14    My Brother Duels Me to The Death
 
The metal door was half hidden behind a laundry bin full of
dirty hotel towels. I didn’t see anything strange about it, but
Rachel showed me where to look, and I recognized the faint
blue symbol etched in the metal.
‘It hasn’t been used in a long time,’ Annabeth said.
‘I tried to open it once,’ Rachel said, ‘just out of curiosity.
It’s rusted shut.’
‘No.’ Annabeth stepped forward. ‘It just needs the touch of
a half-blood.’
Sure enough, as soon as Annabeth put her hand on the
mark, it glowed blue. The metal door unsealed and creaked
open, revealing a dark staircase leading down.
‘Wow.’ Rachel looked calm, but I couldn’t tell if she was
pretending or not. She’d changed into a ratty Museum of
Modern Art T-shirt and her regular marker-coloured jeans,
her blue plastic hairbrush sticking out of her pocket. Her red
hair was tied back, but she still had ﬂecks of gold in it, and
traces of the gold glitter on her face. ‘So… after you?’
‘You’re the guide,’ Annabeth said with mock politeness.
‘Lead on.’
The stairs led down to a large brick tunnel. It was so dark I
couldn’t see further than a metre in front of us, but
Annabeth and I had restocked on ﬂashlights. As soon as we
switched them on, Rachel yelped.
A skeleton was grinning at us. It wasn’t human. It was
huge, for one thing – at least two and a half metres tall. It
had been strung up, chained by its wrists and ankles so it
made a kind of giant X over the tunnel. But what really sent
1012
a shiver down my back was the single black eye socket in
the centre of its skull.
‘A Cyclops,’ Annabeth said. ‘It’s very old. It’s not…
anybody we know.’
It wasn’t Tyson, she meant. But that didn’t make me feel
much better. I still felt like it had been put here as a
warning. Whatever could kill a grown Cyclops, I didn’t want
to meet.
Rachel swallowed. ‘You have a friend who’s a Cyclops?’
‘Tyson,’ I said. ‘My half-brother.’
‘Your half-brother?’
‘Hopefully we’ll ﬁnd him down here,’ I said. ‘And Grover.
He’s a satyr.’
‘Oh.’ Her voice was small. ‘Well then, we’d better keep
moving.’
She stepped under the skeleton’s left arm and kept
walking. Annabeth and I exchanged looks. Annabeth
shrugged. We followed Rachel deeper into the maze.
After ﬁfteen metres we came to a crossroads. Ahead, the
brick tunnel continued. To the right, the walls were made of
ancient marble slabs. To the left, the tunnel was earth and
tree roots.
I pointed left. ‘That looks like the tunnel Tyson and Grover
took.’
Annabeth frowned. ‘Yeah, but the architecture to the right
– those old stones – that’s more likely to lead to an ancient
part of the maze, towards Daedalus’s workshop.’
‘We need to go straight,’ Rachel said.
Annabeth and I both looked at her.
‘That’s the least likely choice,’ Annabeth said.
‘You don’t see it?’ Rachel asked. ‘Look at the ﬂoor.’
I saw nothing except well-worn bricks and mud.
‘There’s a brightness there,’ Rachel insisted. ‘Very faint.
But forward is the correct way. To the left, further down the
tunnel, those tree roots are moving like feelers. I don’t like
that. To the right, there’s a trap about seven metres down.
1013
Holes in the walls, maybe for spikes. I don’t think we should
risk it.’
I didn’t see anything like what she was describing, but I
nodded. ‘Okay. Forward.’
‘You believe her?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Don’t you?’
Annabeth looked like she wanted to argue, but she waved
at Rachel to lead on. Together we kept walking down the
brick corridor. It twisted and turned, but there were no more
side tunnels. We seemed to be angling down, heading
deeper underground.
‘No traps?’ I asked anxiously.
‘Nothing.’ Rachel knitted her eyebrows. ‘Should it be this
easy?’
‘I don’t know,’ I said. ‘It never was before.’
‘So, Rachel,’ Annabeth said, ‘where are you from,
exactly?’
She said it like, What planet are you from? But Rachel
didn’t look oﬀended.
‘Brooklyn,’ she said.
‘Aren’t your parents going to be worried if you’re out
late?’
Rachel exhaled. ‘Not likely. I could be gone a week and
they’d never notice.’
‘Why not?’ This time Annabeth didn’t sound as sarcastic.
Having trouble with parents was something she understood.
Before Rachel could answer, there was a creaking noise in
front of us, like huge doors opening.
‘What was that?’ Annabeth asked.
‘I don’t know,’ Rachel said. ‘Metal hinges.’
‘Oh, that’s very helpful. I mean, what is it?’
Then I heard heavy footsteps shaking the corridor –
coming towards us.
‘Run?’ I asked.
‘Run,’ Rachel agreed.
1014
We turned and ﬂed the way we’d come, but we hadn’t
made it six metres before we ran straight into some old
friends. Two dracaenae – snake women in Greek armour –
levelled their javelins at our chests. Standing between them
was Kelli, the empousa cheerleader.
‘Well, well,’ Kelli said.
I uncapped Riptide, and Annabeth pulled her knife, but
before my sword was even out of pen form Kelli pounced on
Rachel. Her hand turned into a claw and she spun Rachel
around, holding her tight, with her talons at Rachel’s neck.
‘Taking your little mortal pet for a walk?’ Kelli asked me.
‘They’re such fragile things. So easy to break!’
Behind us, the footsteps came closer. A huge form
appeared out of the gloom – a three-metre-tall Laistrygonian
giant with red eyes and fangs.
The giant licked his lips when he saw us. ‘Can I eat them?’
‘No,’ Kelli said. ‘Your master will want these. They will
provide a great deal of entertainment.’ She smiled at me.
‘Now march, half-bloods. Or you all die here, starting with
the mortal girl.’
It was pretty much my worst nightmare. And believe me I’ve
had plenty of nightmares. We were marched down the
tunnel ﬂanked by dracaenae, with Kelli and the giant at the
back, just in case we tried to run for it. Nobody seemed to
worry about us running forward. That was the direction they
wanted us to go.
Up ahead I could see bronze doors. They were about three
and a half metres tall, emblazoned with a pair of crossed
swords. From behind them came a muﬄed roar, like a
crowd.
‘Oh, yessssss,’ said the snake woman on my left. ‘You’ll be
very popular with our hossssst.’
I’d never got to look at a dracaena up close before, and I
wasn’t thrilled to have the opportunity. She would’ve had a
beautiful face, except her tongue was forked and her eyes
1015
were yellow with black slits for pupils. She wore bronze
armour that stopped at her waist. Below that, where her
legs should’ve been, were two massive snake trunks,
mottled bronze and green. She moved by a combination of
slithering and walking, as if she were on living skis.
‘Who’s your host?’ I asked.
She hissed, which might have been a laugh. ‘Oh, you’ll
sssssee. You’ll get along famousssly. He’ssss your brother,
after all.’
‘My what?’ Immediately I thought of Tyson, but that was
impossible. What was she talking about?
The giant pushed past us and opened the doors. He
picked up Annabeth by her shirt and said, ‘You stay here.’
‘Hey!’ she protested, but the guy was twice her size and
he’d already conﬁscated her knife and my sword.
Kelli laughed. She still had her claws at Rachel’s neck. ‘Go
on, Percy. Entertain us. We’ll wait here with your friends to
make sure you behave.’
I looked at Rachel. ‘I’m sorry. I’ll get you out of this.’
She nodded as much as she could with a demon at her
throat. ‘That would be nice.’
The dracaenae prodded me towards the doorway at
javelin-point, and I walked out onto the ﬂoor of an arena.
I guess it wasn’t the largest arena I’d ever been in, but it
seemed pretty spacious considering the whole place was
underground. The dirt ﬂoor was circular, just big enough
that you could drive a car around the rim if you pulled it
really tight. In the centre of the arena, a ﬁght was going on
between a giant and a centaur. The centaur looked
panicked. He was galloping around his enemy, using sword
and shield, while the giant swung a javelin the size of a
telephone pole and the crowd cheered.
The ﬁrst tier of seats was four metres above the arena
ﬂoor. Plain stone benches wrapped all the way around, and
every seat was full. There were giants, dracaenae,
1016
demigods, telkhines and stranger things: bat-winged
demons and creatures that seemed half human and half you
name it – bird, reptile, insect, mammal.
But the creepiest things were the skulls. The arena was
full of them. They ringed the edge of the railing. Metre-high
piles of them decorated the steps between the benches.
They grinned from pikes at the back of the stands and hung
on chains from the ceiling like horrible chandeliers. Some of
them looked very old – nothing but bleached-white bone.
Others looked a lot fresher. I’m not going to describe them.
Believe me, you don’t want me to.
In the middle of all this, proudly displayed on the side of
the spectators’ wall, was something that made no sense to
me – a green banner with the trident of Poseidon in the
centre. What was that doing in a horrible place like this?
Above the banner, sitting in a seat of honour, was an old
enemy.
‘Luke,’ I said.
I’m not sure he could hear me over the roar of the crowd,
but he smiled coldly. He was wearing camouﬂage combat
trousers, a white T-shirt and a bronze breastplate, just like
I’d seen in my dream. But he still wasn’t wearing his sword,
which I thought was strange. Next to him sat the largest
giant I’d ever seen, much larger than the one on the ﬂoor
ﬁghting the centaur. The giant next to Luke must’ve been
ﬁve metres tall, easy, and so wide he took up three seats.
He wore only a loincloth, like a sumo wrestler. His skin was
dark red and tattooed with blue wave designs. I ﬁgured he
must be Luke’s new bodyguard or something.
There was a cry from the arena ﬂoor, and I jumped back
as the centaur crashed to the ground beside me.
He met my eyes pleadingly. ‘Help!’
I reached for my sword, but it had been taken from me
and hadn’t reappeared in my pocket yet.
The centaur struggled to get up as the giant approached,
his javelin ready.
1017
A taloned hand gripped my shoulder. ‘If you value your
friendsss’ livesss,’ my dracaena guard said, ‘you won’t
interfere. This isssn’t your ﬁght. Wait your turn.’
The centaur couldn’t get up. One of his legs was broken.
The giant put his huge foot on the horseman’s chest and
raised the javelin. He looked up at Luke. The crowd cheered,
‘DEATH! DEATH!’
Luke didn’t do anything, but the tattooed sumo dude
sitting next to him rose. He smiled down at the centaur, who
was whimpering, ‘Please! No!’
Then the sumo dude held out his hand and gave the
‘thumbs down’ sign.
I closed my eyes as the gladiator giant thrust his javelin.
When I looked again, the centaur was gone, disintegrated to
ashes. All that was left was a single hoof, which the giant
took up as a trophy and showed to the crowd. They roared
their approval.
A gate opened at the opposite end of the stadium and the
giant marched out in triumph.
In the stands, the sumo dude raised his hands for silence.
‘Good entertainment!’ he bellowed. ‘But nothing I haven’t
seen before. What else do you have, Luke, son of Hermes?’
Luke’s jaw tightened. I could tell he didn’t like being called
son of Hermes. He hated his father. But he rose calmly to his
feet. His eyes glittered. In fact, he seemed to be in a pretty
good mood.
‘Lord Antaeus,’ Luke said, loud enough for the crowd to
hear, ‘you have been an excellent host! We would be happy
to amuse you, to repay the favour of passing through your
territory.’
‘A favour I have not yet granted,’ Antaeus growled. ‘I want
entertainment!’
Luke bowed. ‘I believe I have something better than
centaurs to ﬁght in your arena now. I have a brother of
yours.’ He pointed at me. ‘Percy Jackson, son of Poseidon.’
1018
The crowd began jeering at me and throwing stones, most
of which I dodged, but one caught me on the cheek and
made a good-sized cut.
Antaeus’s eyes lit up. ‘A son of Poseidon? Then he should
ﬁght well! Or die well!’
‘If his death pleases you,’ Luke said, ‘will you let our
armies cross your territory?’
‘Perhaps!’ Antaeus said.
Luke didn’t look too pleased about the ‘perhaps’. He
glared down at me, as if warning me that I’d better die in a
really spectacular way or I’d be in big trouble.
‘Luke!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘Stop this. Let us go!’
Luke seemed to notice her for the ﬁrst time. He looked
stunned for a moment. ‘Annabeth?’
‘Enough time for the females to ﬁght afterwards,’ Antaeus
interrupted. ‘First, Percy Jackson, what weapons will you
choose?’
The dracaenae pushed me into the middle of the arena.
I stared up at Antaeus. ‘How can you be a son of
Poseidon?’
Antaeus laughed, and the rest of the crowd laughed, too.
‘I am his favourite son!’ Antaeus boomed. ‘Behold, my
temple to the Earthshaker, built from the skulls of all those
I’ve killed in his name! Your skull shall join them!’
I stared in horror at all the skulls – hundreds of them, and
the banner of Poseidon. How could this be a temple for my
dad? My dad was a nice guy. He’d never asked me for a
Father’s Day card, much less somebody’s skull.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled at me. ‘His mother is Gaia! Gai–’
Her Laistrygonian captor clamped his hand over her
mouth. His mother is Gaia. The earth goddess. Annabeth
was trying to tell me that this was important, but I didn’t
know why. Maybe just because the guy had two godly
parents. That would make him even harder to kill.
‘You’re crazy, Antaeus,’ I said. ‘If you think this is a good
tribute, you know nothing about Poseidon.’
1019
The crowd screamed insults at me, but Antaeus raised his
hand for silence.
‘Weapons,’ he insisted. ‘And then we will see how you die.
Will you have axes? Shields? Nets? Flamethrowers?’
‘Just my sword,’ I said.
Laughter erupted from the monsters, but immediately
Riptide appeared in my hands, and some of the voices in the
crowd turned nervous. The bronze blade glowed with a faint
light.
‘Round one!’ Antaeus announced. The gates opened, and
a dracaena slithered out. She had a trident in one hand and
a weighted net in the other – classic gladiator style. I’d
trained against those weapons at camp for years.
She jabbed at me experimentally. I stepped away. She
threw her net, hoping to tangle my sword hand, but I
sidestepped easily, sliced her spear in half and stabbed
Riptide through a chink in her armour. With a painful wail,
she vaporized into nothing, and the cheering of the crowd
died.
‘No!’ Antaeus bellowed. ‘Too fast! You must wait for the
kill. Only I give that order!’
I glanced over at Annabeth and Rachel. I had to ﬁnd a way
to get them free, maybe distract their guards.
‘Nice job, Percy.’ Luke smiled. ‘You’ve got better with the
sword. I’ll grant you that.’
‘Round two!’ Antaeus yelled. ‘And slower this time! More
entertainment! Wait for my call before killing anybody, OR
ELSE!’
The gates opened again, and this time a young warrior
came out. He was a little older than me, about sixteen. He
had glossy black hair, and his left eye was covered with an
eye patch. He was thin and wiry so his Greek armour hung
on him loosely. He stabbed his sword into the ground,
adjusted his shield straps and pulled on his horsehair
helmet.
‘Who are you?’ I asked.
1020
‘Ethan Nakamura,’ he said. ‘I have to kill you.’
‘Why are you doing this?’
‘Hey!’ a monster jeered from the stands. ‘Stop talking and
ﬁght already!’ The others took up the call.
‘I have to prove myself,’ Ethan told me. ‘Only way to join
up.’
And with that he charged. Our swords met in midair and
the crowd roared. It didn’t seem right. I didn’t want to ﬁght
to entertain a bunch of monsters, but Ethan Nakamura
wasn’t giving me much choice.
He pressed forward. He was good. He’d never been at
Camp Half-Blood, as far as I knew, but he’d been trained. He
parried my strike and almost slammed me with his shield,
but I jumped back. He slashed. I rolled to one side. We
exchanged thrusts and parries, getting a feel for each
other’s ﬁghting style. I tried to keep to Ethan’s blind side,
but it didn’t help much. He’d apparently been ﬁghting with
only one eye for a long time, because he was excellent at
guarding his left.
‘Blood!’ the monsters cried.
My opponent glanced up at the stands. That was his
weakness, I realized. He needed to impress them. I didn’t.
He yelled an angry battle cry and charged me, but I
parried his blade and backed away, letting him come after
me.
‘Booo!’ Antaeus said. ‘Stand and ﬁght!’
Ethan pressed me, but I had no trouble defending, even
without a shield. He was dressed for defence – heavy
armour and shield – which made it very tiring to play
oﬀence. I was a softer target, but I was also lighter and
faster. The crowd went nuts, yelling complaints and
throwing rocks. We’d been ﬁghting for almost ﬁve minutes
and there was no blood.
Finally Ethan made his mistake. He tried to jab at my
stomach and I locked his sword hilt in mine and twisted. His
sword dropped into the dirt. Before he could recover I
1021
slammed the butt of my sword into his helmet and pushed
him down. His heavy armour helped me more than him. He
fell on his back, dazed and tired. I put the tip of my sword on
his chest.
‘Get it over with,’ Ethan groaned.
I looked up at Antaeus. His red face was stony with
displeasure, but he held up his hand and put it ‘thumbs
down’.
‘Forget it.’ I sheathed my sword.
‘Don’t be a fool,’ Ethan groaned. ‘They’ll just kill us both.’
I oﬀered him my hand. Reluctantly, he took it. I helped
him up.
‘No one dishonours the games!’ Antaeus bellowed. ‘Your
heads shall both be tributes to Poseidon!’
I looked at Ethan. ‘When you see your chance, run.’ Then I
turned back to Antaeus. ‘Why don’t you ﬁght me yourself? If
you’ve got Dad’s favour, come down here and prove it!’
The monsters grumbled in the stands. Antaeus looked
around, and apparently realized he had no choice. He
couldn’t say no without looking like a coward.
‘I am the greatest wrestler in the world, boy,’ he warned. ‘I
have been wrestling since the ﬁrst pankration!’
‘Pankration?’ I asked.
‘He means ﬁghting to the death,’ Ethan said. ‘No rules. No
holds barred. It used to be an Olympic sport.’
‘Thanks for the tip,’ I said.
‘Don’t mention it.’
Rachel was watching me with wide eyes. Annabeth shook
her head emphatically, the Laistrygonian’s hand still
clamped over her mouth.
I pointed my sword at Antaeus. ‘Winner takes all! I win, we
all go free. You win, we die. Swear upon the River Styx.’
Antaeus laughed. ‘This shouldn’t take long. I swear to your
terms!’
He leaped oﬀ the railing into the arena.
1022
‘Good luck,’ Ethan told me. ‘You’ll need it.’ Then he
backed up quickly.
Antaeus cracked his knuckles. He grinned, and I saw that
even his teeth were etched in wave patterns, which must’ve
made brushing after meals a real pain.
‘Weapons?’ he asked.
‘I’ll stick with my sword. You?’
He held up his huge hands and wiggled his ﬁngers. ‘I don’t
need anything else! Master Luke, you will referee this one.’
Luke smiled down at me. ‘With pleasure.’
Antaeus lunged. I rolled under his legs and stabbed him in
the back of his thigh.
‘Argggh!’ he yelled. But where blood should’ve come out,
there was a spout of sand, like I’d busted the side of an
hourglass. It spilled to the ground, and the earth rose up to
collect around his leg, almost like a cast. When it fell away,
the wound was gone.
He charged again. Fortunately I’d had some experience
ﬁghting giants. I dodged sideways this time and stabbed
him under the arm. Riptide’s blade was buried to the hilt in
his ribs. That was the good news. The bad news was that it
wrenched out of my hand when the giant turned, and I was
thrown across the arena, weaponless.
Antaeus bellowed in pain. I waited for him to disintegrate.
No monster had ever withstood a direct hit like that from my
sword. The celestial bronze blade had to be destroying his
essence. But Antaeus groped for the hilt, pulled out the
sword and tossed it behind him. More sand poured from the
wound, but again the earth rose up to cover him. Dirt
coated his body all the way to his shoulders. As soon as the
dirt spilled away, Antaeus was ﬁne.
‘Now you see why I never lose, demigod!’ Antaeus
gloated. ‘Come here and let me crush you. I’ll make it
quick!’
Antaeus stood between me and my sword. Desperately, I
glanced to either side, and I caught Annabeth’s eye.
1023
The earth, I thought. What had Annabeth been trying to
tell me? Antaeus’s mother was Gaia the earth mother, the
most ancient goddess of all. Antaeus’s father might have
been Poseidon, but Gaia was keeping him alive. I couldn’t
hurt him as long as he was touching the ground.
I tried to skirt around him, but Antaeus anticipated my
move. He blocked my path, chuckling. He was just toying
with me now. He had me cornered.
I looked up at the chains hanging from the ceiling,
dangling the skulls of his enemies on hooks. Suddenly I had
an idea.
I feinted to the other side. Antaeus blocked me. The crowd
jeered and screamed at Antaeus to ﬁnish me oﬀ, but he was
having too much fun.
‘Puny boy,’ he said. ‘Not a worthy son of the sea god!’
I felt my pen return to my pocket, but Antaeus wouldn’t
know about that. He would think Riptide was still in the dirt
behind him. He would think my goal was to get my sword. It
wasn’t much of an advantage, but it was all I had.
I charged straight ahead, crouching low so he would think
I was going to roll between his legs again. While he was
stooping, ready to catch me like a grounder, I jumped for all
I was worth – kicking oﬀ his forearm, scrambling up his
shoulder like it was a ladder, placing my shoe on his head.
He did the natural thing. He straightened up indignantly and
yelled ‘HEY!’ I pushed oﬀ, using his force to catapult me
towards the ceiling. I caught the top of a chain, and the
skulls and hooks jangled beneath me. I wrapped my legs
around the chain, just like I used to do at the ropes course in
gym class. I drew Riptide and sawed oﬀ the chain next to
me.
‘Come down here, coward!’ Antaeus bellowed. He tried to
grab me, but I was just out of reach. Hanging on for dear
life, I yelled, ‘Come up and get me! Or are you too slow and
fat?’
1024
He howled and made another grab for me. He caught a
chain and tried to pull himself up. While he was struggling, I
lowered my sawn-oﬀ chain, hook ﬁrst. It took me two tries,
but ﬁnally I snagged Antaeus’s loincloth.
‘WAAA!’ he yelled. Quickly I slipped the free chain through
the fastening link on my own chain, pulled it taut and
secured it the best I could. Antaeus tried to slip back to the
ground, but his butt stayed suspended by his loincloth. He
had to hold on to the other chains with both hands to avoid
getting ﬂipped upside down. I prayed the loincloth and the
chain would hold up for a few more seconds. While Antaeus
cursed and ﬂailed, I scrambled around the chains, swinging
and cutting like I was some kind of crazed monkey. I made
loops with hooks and metal links. I don’t know how I did it.
My mom always said I have a gift for getting stuﬀ tangled
up. Plus I was desperate to save my friends. Anyway, within
a couple of minutes the giant was suspended above the
ground, hopelessly snarled in chains and hooks.
I dropped to the ﬂoor, panting and sweaty. My hands were
raw from climbing.
‘Get me down!’ Antaeus demanded.
‘Free him!’ Luke ordered. ‘He is our host!’
I uncapped Riptide. ‘I’ll free him.’
And I stabbed the giant in the stomach. He bellowed, and
sand poured out, but he was too far up to touch the earth,
and the dirt did not rise to help him. Antaeus just dissolved,
pouring out bit by bit, until there was nothing left but empty
swinging chains, a really big loincloth on a hook and a
bunch of grinning skulls dancing above me like they ﬁnally
had something to smile about.
‘Jackson!’ Luke yelled. ‘I should have killed you long ago!’
‘You tried,’ I reminded him. ‘Let us go, Luke. We had a
sworn agreement with Antaeus. I’m the winner.’
He did just what I expected. He said, ‘Antaeus is dead. His
oath dies with him. But since I’m feeling merciful today, I’ll
have you killed quickly.’
1025
He pointed at Annabeth. ‘Spare the girl.’ His voice
quavered just a little. ‘I would speak to her before – before
our great triumph.’
Every monster in the audience drew a weapon or
extended 
its 
claws. 
We 
were 
trapped. 
Hopelessly
outnumbered.
Then I felt something in my pocket – a freezing sensation,
growing colder and colder. The dog whistle. My ﬁngers
closed around it. For days I’d avoided using Quintus’s gift. It
had to be a trap. But now… I had no choice. I took it out of
my pocket and blew. It made no audible sound as it
shattered into shards of ice, melting in my hand.
Luke laughed. ‘What was that supposed to do?’
From behind me came a surprised yelp. The Laistrygonian
giant who’d been guarding Annabeth ﬂew past me and
smashed into the wall.
‘AROOOOF!’
Kelli the empousa screamed as a two-hundred-kilogram
black mastiﬀ picked her up like a chew toy and tossed her
through the air, straight into Luke’s lap. Mrs O’Leary
snarled, and the two dracaenae guards backed away. For a
moment the monsters in the audience were caught
completely by surprise.
‘Let’s go!’ I yelled at my friends. ‘Heel, Mrs O’Leary!’
‘The far exit!’ Rachel cried. ‘That’s the right way!’
Ethan Nakamura took his cue. Together we raced across
the arena and out the far exit, Mrs O’Leary right behind us.
As we ran, I could hear the disorganized sounds of an entire
army trying to jump out of the stands and follow us.
1026
15    We Steal Some Slightly Used Wings
 
‘This way!’ Rachel yelled.
‘Why should we follow you?’ Annabeth demanded. ‘You
led us straight into that death trap!’
‘It was the way you needed to go,’ Rachel said. ‘And so is
this. Come on!’
Annabeth didn’t look happy about it, but she ran along
with the rest of us. Rachel seemed to know exactly where
she was going. She whipped around corners and didn’t even
hesitate at crossroads. Once she said, ‘Duck!’ and we all
crouched as a huge axe swung over our heads. Then we
kept going as if nothing had happened.
I lost track of how many turns we made. We didn’t stop to
rest until we came to a room the size of a gymnasium with
old marble columns holding up the roof. I stood at the
doorway, listening for sounds of pursuit, but I heard nothing.
Apparently, we’d lost Luke and his minions in the maze.
Then I realized something else: Mrs O’Leary was gone. I
didn’t know when she’d disappeared. I didn’t know if she’d
got lost or been overrun by monsters, or what. My heart
turned to lead. She’d saved our lives, and I hadn’t even
waited to make sure she was following us.
Ethan collapsed on the ﬂoor. ‘You people are crazy.’ He
pulled oﬀ his helmet. His face gleamed with sweat.
Annabeth gasped. ‘I remember you! You were one of the
undetermined kids in Hermes cabin, years ago.’
He glared at her. ‘Yeah, and you’re Annabeth. I remember.’
‘What – what happened to your eye?’
1027
Ethan looked away, and I got the feeling that was one
subject he would not discuss.
‘You must be the half-blood from my dream,’ I said. ‘The
one Luke’s people cornered. It wasn’t Nico after all.’
‘Who’s Nico?’
‘Never mind,’ Annabeth said quickly. ‘Why were you trying
to join up with the wrong side?’
Ethan sneered. ‘There’s no right side. The gods never
cared about us. Why shouldn’t I –’
‘Sign up with an army that makes you ﬁght to the death
for entertainment?’ Annabeth said. ‘Gee, I wonder.’
Ethan struggled to his feet. ‘I’m not going to argue with
you. Thanks for the help, but I’m out of here.’
‘We’re going after Daedalus,’ I said. ‘Come with us. Once
we get through, you’d be welcome back at camp.’
‘You really are crazy if you think Daedalus will help you.’
‘He has to,’ Annabeth said. ‘We’ll make him listen.’
Ethan snorted. ‘Yeah, well. Good luck with that.’
I grabbed his arm. ‘You’re just going to head oﬀ alone into
the maze? That’s suicide.’
He looked at me with barely controlled anger. His eye
patch was frayed around the edges and the black cloth was
faded, like he’d been wearing it a long, long time. ‘You
shouldn’t have spared me, Jackson. Mercy has no place in
this war.’
Then he ran oﬀ into the darkness, back the way we’d
come.
Annabeth, Rachel and I were so exhausted we made camp
right there in the huge room. I found some scrap wood and
we started a ﬁre. Shadows danced oﬀ the columns rising
around us like trees.
‘Something was wrong with Luke,’ Annabeth muttered,
poking at the ﬁre with her knife. ‘Did you notice the way he
was acting?’
1028
‘He looked pretty pleased to me,’ I said. ‘Like he’d spent a
nice day torturing heroes.’
‘That’s not true! There was something wrong with him. He
looked… nervous. He told his monsters to spare me. He
wanted to tell me something.’
‘Probably, Hi, Annabeth! Sit here with me and watch while
I tear your friends apart. It’ll be fun!’
‘You’re impossible,’ Annabeth grumbled. She sheathed her
dagger and looked at Rachel. ‘So which way now,
Sacagawea?’
Rachel didn’t respond right away. She’d become quieter
since the arena. Now, whenever Annabeth made a sarcastic
comment, Rachel hardly bothered to answer. She’d burned
the tip of a stick in the ﬁre and was using it to draw ash
ﬁgures on the ﬂoor, images of the monsters we’d seen. With
a few strokes she caught the likeness of a dracaena
perfectly.
‘We’ll follow the path,’ she said. ‘The brightness on the
ﬂoor.’
‘The brightness that led us straight into a trap?’ Annabeth
asked.
‘Lay oﬀ her, Annabeth,’ I said. ‘She’s doing the best she
can.’
Annabeth stood. ‘The ﬁre’s getting low. I’ll go look for
some more scraps while you guys talk strategy.’ And she
marched oﬀ into the shadows.
Rachel drew another ﬁgure with her stick – an ashy
Antaeus dangling from his chains.
‘Annabeth’s usually not like this,’ I told her. ‘I don’t know
what her problem is.’
Rachel raised her eyebrows. ‘Are you sure you don’t
know?’
‘What do you mean?’
‘Boys,’ she muttered. ‘Totally blind.’
‘Hey, don’t you get on my case, too! Look, I’m sorry I got
you involved in this.’
1029
‘No, you were right,’ she said. ‘I can see the path. I can’t
explain it, but it’s really clear.’ She pointed towards the
other end of the room, into the darkness. ‘The workshop is
that way. The heart of the maze. We’re very close now. I
don’t know why the path led through that arena. I – I’m
sorry about that. I thought you were going to die.’
She sounded like she was close to crying.
‘Hey, I’m usually about to die,’ I promised. ‘Don’t feel
bad.’
She studied my face. ‘So you do this every summer? Fight
monsters? Save the world? Don’t you ever get to do just,
you know, normal stuﬀ?’
I’d never really thought about it like that. The last time I’d
had something like a normal life had been… well, never.
‘Half-bloods get used to it, I guess. Or maybe not used to it,
but…’ I shifted uncomfortably. ‘What about you? What do
you do normally?’
Rachel shrugged. ‘I paint. I read a lot.’
Okay, I thought. So far we are scoring a zero on the
similarities chart. ‘What about your family?’
I could sense her mental shields going up, like this was
not a safe subject. ‘Oh… they’re just, you know, family.’
‘You said they wouldn’t notice if you were gone.’
She set down her drawing stick. ‘Wow, I’m really tired. I
may sleep for a while, okay?’
‘Oh, sure. Sorry if…’
But Rachel was already curling up, using her backpack as
a pillow. She closed her eyes and lay very still, but I got the
feeling she wasn’t really asleep.
A few minutes later, Annabeth came back. She tossed
some more sticks on the ﬁre. She looked at Rachel, then at
me.
‘I’ll take ﬁrst watch,’ she said. ‘You should sleep, too.’
‘You don’t have to act like that.’
‘Like what?’
1030
‘Like… never mind.’ I lay down, feeling miserable. I was so
tired I fell asleep as soon as my eyes closed.
In my dreams, I heard laughter. Cold, harsh laughter, like
knives being sharpened.
I was standing at the edge of a pit in the depths of
Tartarus. Below me, the darkness seethed like inky soup.
‘So close to your own destruction, little hero,’ the voice of
Kronos chided. ‘And still you are blind.’
The voice was diﬀerent than it had been before. It seemed
almost physical now, as if it were speaking from a real body
instead of… whatever he’d been in his chopped-up
condition.
‘I have much to thank you for,’ Kronos said. ‘You have
assured my rise.’
The shadows in the cavern became deeper and heavier. I
tried to back away from the edge of the pit, but it was like
swimming through oil. Time slowed down. My breathing
almost stopped.
‘A favour,’ Kronos said. ‘The Titan lord always pays his
debts. Perhaps a glimpse of the friends you abandoned…’
The darkness rippled around me, and I was in a diﬀerent
cave.
‘Hurry!’ Tyson said. He came barrelling into the room.
Grover stumbled along behind him. There was a rumbling in
the corridor they’d come from, and the head of an enormous
snake burst into the cave. I mean, this thing was so big its
body barely ﬁtted through the tunnel. Its scales were
coppery, its head was diamond-shaped like a rattler and its
yellow eyes glowed with hatred. When it opened its mouth,
its fangs were as tall as Tyson.
It lashed at Grover, but Grover scampered out of the way.
The snake got a mouthful of dirt. Tyson picked up a boulder
and threw it at the monster, smacking it between the eyes,
but the snake just recoiled and hissed.
‘It’s going to eat you!’ Grover yelled at Tyson.
1031
‘How do you know?’
‘It just told me! Run!’
Tyson darted to one side, but the snake used its head like
a club and knocked him oﬀ his feet.
‘No!’ Grover yelled. But before Tyson could regain his
balance the snake wrapped around him and started to
squeeze.
Tyson strained, pushing with all his immense strength, but
the snake squeezed tighter. Grover frantically hit the snake
with his reed pipes, but he might as well have been banging
on a stone wall.
The whole room shook as the snake ﬂexed its muscles,
shuddering to overcome Tyson’s strength.
Grover began to play the pipes, and stalactites rained
down from the ceiling. The whole cave seemed about to
collapse…
I woke with Annabeth shaking my shoulder. ‘Percy, wake
up!’
‘Tyson – Tyson’s in trouble!’ I said. ‘We have to help him!’
‘First things ﬁrst,’ she said. ‘Earthquake!’
Sure enough, the room was rumbling. ‘Rachel!’ I yelled.
Her eyes opened instantly. She grabbed her pack, and the
three of us ran. We were almost to the far tunnel when a
column next to us groaned and buckled. We kept going as a
hundred tons of marble crashed down behind us.
We made it to the corridor and turned just in time to see
the other columns toppling. A cloud of white dust billowed
over us, and we kept running.
‘You know what?’ Annabeth said. ‘I like this way after all.’
It wasn’t long before we saw light up ahead – like regular
electric lighting.
‘There,’ Rachel said.
We followed her into a stainless-steel hallway, like I
imagined they’d have on a space station or something.
1032
Fluorescent lights glowed from the ceiling. The ﬂoor was a
metal grate.
I was so used to being in the darkness that I had to squint.
Annabeth and Rachel both looked pale in the harsh
illumination.
‘This way,’ Rachel said, beginning to run. ‘We’re close!’
‘This is so wrong!’ Annabeth said. ‘The workshop should
be in the oldest section of the maze. This can’t –’
She faltered, because we’d arrived at a set of metal
double doors. Inscribed in the steel, at eye level, was a large
blue Greek Δ.
‘We’re here,’ Rachel announced. ‘Daedalus’s workshop.’
Annabeth pressed the symbol on the doors and they hissed
open.
‘So much for ancient architecture,’ I said.
Annabeth scowled. Together we walked inside.
The ﬁrst thing that struck me was the daylight – blazing
sun coming through giant windows. Not the kind of thing
you expect in the heart of a dungeon. The workshop was
like an artist’s studio, with ten-metre ceilings and industrial
lighting, polished stone ﬂoors and workbenches. A spiral
staircase led up to a second-storey loft. Half a dozen easels
displayed hand-drawn diagrams for buildings and machines
that looked like Leonardo da Vinci sketches. Several laptop
computers were scattered around on the tables. Glass jars
of green oil – Greek ﬁre – lined one shelf. There were
inventions, too – weird metal machines I couldn’t make
sense of. One was a bronze chair with a bunch of electrical
wires attached to it, like some kind of torture device. In
another corner stood a giant metal egg about the size of a
man. There was a grandfather clock that appeared to be
made entirely of glass, so you could see all the gears
turning. And hanging on the wall were several sets of bronze
and silver wings.
1033
‘Di immortales,’ Annabeth muttered. She ran to the
nearest easel and looked at the sketch. ‘He’s a genius. Look
at the curves on this building!’
‘And an artist,’ Rachel said in amazement. ‘These wings
are amazing!’
The wings looked more advanced than the ones I’d seen in
my dreams. The feathers were more tightly interwoven.
Instead of wax seals, self-adhesive strips ran down the
sides.
I kept my hand on Riptide. Apparently Daedalus was not
at home, but the workshop looked like it had been used
recently. The laptops were running their screen savers. A
half-eaten blueberry muﬃn and a coﬀee cup sat on a
workbench.
I walked to the window. The view outside was amazing. I
recognized the Rocky Mountains in the distance. We were
high up in the foothills, at least one hundred and ﬁfty
metres, and, down below, a valley spread out, ﬁlled with a
tumbled collection of red mesas and boulders and spires of
stone. It looked like some huge kid had been building a toy
city with skyscraper-size blocks, and then decided to knock
it over.
‘Where are we?’ I wondered.
‘Colorado Springs,’ a voice said behind us. ‘The Garden of
the Gods.’
Standing on the spiral staircase above us, with his weapon
drawn, was our missing sword master, Quintus.
∗  ∗  ∗
 
‘You,’ Annabeth said. ‘What have you done with Daedalus?’
Quintus smiled faintly. ‘Trust me, my dear. You don’t want
to meet him.’
‘Look, Mr Traitor,’ she growled, ‘I didn’t ﬁght a dragon
woman and a three-bodied man and a psychotic Sphinx to
see you. Now where is DAEDALUS?’
1034
Quintus came down the stairs, holding his sword at his
side. He was dressed in jeans and boots and his counsellor’s
T-shirt from Camp Half-Blood, which seemed like an insult
now that we knew he was a spy. I didn’t know if I could beat
him in a sword ﬁght. He was pretty good. But I ﬁgured I
would have to try.
‘You think I’m an agent of Kronos,’ he said. ‘That I work for
Luke.’
‘Well, duh,’ said Annabeth.
‘You’re an intelligent girl,’ he said. ‘But you’re wrong. I
work only for myself.’
‘Luke mentioned you,’ I said. ‘Geryon knew about you,
too. You’ve been to his ranch.’
‘Of course,’ he said. ‘I’ve been almost everywhere. Even
here.’
He walked past me like I was no threat at all and stood by
the window. ‘The view changes from day to day,’ he mused.
‘It’s always some place high up. Yesterday it was from a
skyscraper overlooking Manhattan. The day before that,
there was a beautiful view of Lake Michigan. But it keeps
coming back to the Garden of the Gods. I think the Labyrinth
likes it here. A ﬁtting name, I suppose.’
‘You’ve been here before,’ I said.
‘Oh, yes.’
‘That’s an illusion out there?’ I asked. ‘A projection or
something?’
‘No,’ Rachel murmured. ‘It’s real. We’re really in Colorado.’
Quintus regarded her. ‘You have clear vision, don’t you?
You remind me of another mortal girl I once knew. Another
princess who came to grief.’
‘Enough games,’ I said. ‘What have you done with
Daedalus?’
Quintus stared at me. ‘My boy, you need lessons from
your friend on seeing clearly. I am Daedalus.’
1035
There were a lot of answers I might’ve given, from ‘I knew
that’ to ‘LIAR!’ to ‘Yeah right, and I’m Zeus.’
The only thing I could think to say was, ‘But you’re not an
inventor! You’re a swordsman!’
‘I am both,’ Quintus said. ‘And an architect. And a scholar.
I also play basketball pretty well for a guy who didn’t start
until he was two thousand years old. A real artist must be
good at many things.’
‘That’s true,’ Rachel said. ‘Like I can paint with my feet as
well as my hands.’
‘You see?’ Quintus said. ‘A girl of many talents.’
‘But you don’t even look like Daedalus,’ I protested. ‘I saw
him in a dream, and…’ Suddenly a horrible thought dawned
on me.
‘Yes,’ Quintus said. ‘You’ve ﬁnally guessed the truth.’
‘You’re an automaton. You made yourself a new body.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said uneasily, ‘that’s not possible. That
– that can’t be an automaton.’
Quintus chuckled. ‘Do you know what Quintus means, my
dear?’
‘The ﬁfth, in Latin. But –’
‘This is my ﬁfth body.’ The swordsman held out his
forearm. He pressed his elbow and part of his wrist popped
open – a rectangular hatch in his skin. Underneath, bronze
gears whirred. Wires glowed.
‘That’s amazing!’ Rachel said.
‘That’s weird,’ I said.
‘You found a way to transfer your animus into a machine?’
Annabeth said. ‘That’s… not natural.’
‘Oh, I assure you, my dear, it’s still me. I’m still very much
Daedalus. Our mother, Athena, makes sure I never forget
that.’ He tugged back the collar of his shirt. At the base of
his neck was the mark I’d seen before – the dark shape of a
bird grafted to his skin.
‘A murderer’s brand,’ Annabeth said.
1036
‘For your nephew, Perdix,’ I guessed. ‘The boy you pushed
oﬀ the tower.’
Quintus’s face darkened. ‘I did not push him. I simply –’
‘Made him lose his balance,’ I said. ‘Let him die.’
Quintus gazed out of the windows at the purple
mountains. ‘I regret what I did, Percy. I was angry and bitter.
But I cannot take it back, and Athena never lets me forget.
As Perdix died, she turned him into a small bird – a
partridge. She branded the bird’s shape on my neck as a
reminder. No matter what body I take, the brand appears on
my skin.’
I looked into his eyes, and I realized he was the same man
I’d seen in my dreams. His face might be totally diﬀerent,
but the same soul was in there – the same intelligence and
all the sadness.
‘You really are Daedalus,’ I decided. ‘But why did you
come to the camp? Why spy on us?’
‘To see if your camp was worth saving. Luke had given me
one story. I preferred to come to my own conclusions.’
‘So you have talked to Luke.’
‘Oh, yes. Several times. He is quite persuasive.’
‘But now you’ve seen the camp!’ Annabeth persisted. ‘So
you know we need your help. You can’t let Luke through the
maze!’
Daedalus set his sword on the workbench. ‘The maze is no
longer mine to control, Annabeth. I created it, yes. In fact, it
is tied to my life force. But I have allowed it to live and grow
on its own. That is the price I paid for privacy.’
‘Privacy from what?’
‘The gods,’ he said. ‘And death. I have been alive for two
millennia, my dear, hiding from death.’
‘But how can you hide from Hades?’ I asked. ‘I mean…
Hades has the Furies.’
‘They do not know everything,’ he said. ‘Or see
everything. You have encountered them, Percy. You know
this is true. A clever man can hide quite a long time, and I
1037
have buried myself very deep. Only my greatest enemy has
kept after me, and even him I have thwarted.’
‘You mean Minos,’ I said.
Daedalus nodded. ‘He hunts for me relentlessly. Now that
he is a judge of the dead, he would like nothing better than
for me to come before him so he can punish me for my
crimes. After the daughters of Cocalus killed him, Minos’s
ghost began torturing me in my dreams. He promised that
he would hunt me down. I did the only thing I could. I
retreated from the world completely. I descended into my
Labyrinth. 
I 
decided 
this 
would 
be 
my 
ultimate
accomplishment: I would cheat death.’
‘And you did,’ Annabeth marvelled, ‘for two thousand
years.’ She sounded kind of impressed, despite the horrible
things Daedalus had done.
Just then a loud bark echoed from the corridor. I heard the
ba-BUMP, ba-BUMP, ba-BUMP of huge paws, and Mrs
O’Leary bounded into the workshop. She licked my face
once, then almost knocked Daedalus over with an
enthusiastic leap.
‘There is my old friend!’ Daedalus said, scratching Mrs
O’Leary behind the ears. ‘My only companion all these long
lonely years.’
‘You let her save me,’ I said. ‘That whistle actually
worked.’
Daedalus nodded. ‘Of course it did, Percy. You have a good
heart. And I knew Mrs O’Leary liked you. I wanted to help
you. Perhaps I – I felt guilty, as well.’
‘Guilty about what?’
‘That your quest would be in vain.’
‘What?’ Annabeth said. ‘But you can still help us. You have
to! Give us Ariadne’s string so Luke can’t get it.’
‘Yes… the string. I told Luke that the eyes of a clear-
sighted mortal are the best guide, but he did not trust me.
He was so focused on the idea of a magic item. And the
1038
string works. It’s not as accurate as your mortal friend here,
perhaps. But good enough. Good enough.’
‘Where is it?’ Annabeth said.
‘With Luke,’ Daedalus said sadly. ‘I’m sorry, my dear. But
you are several hours too late.’
With a chill I realized why Luke had been in such a good
mood in the arena. He’d already got the string from
Daedalus. His only obstacle had been the arena master, and
I’d taken care of that for him by killing Antaeus.
‘Kronos promised me freedom,’ Quintus said. ‘Once Hades
is overthrown, he will set me over the Underworld. I will
reclaim my son Icarus. I will make things right with poor
young Perdix. I will see Minos’s soul cast into Tartarus,
where it cannot bother me again. And I will no longer have
to run from death.’
‘That’s your brilliant idea?’ Annabeth yelled. ‘You’re going
to let Luke destroy our camp, kill hundreds of demigods and
then attack Olympus? You’re going to bring down the entire
world so you can get what you want?’
‘Your cause is doomed, my dear. I saw that as soon as I
began to work at your camp. There is no way you can hold
back the might of Kronos.’
‘That’s not true!’ she cried.
‘I am doing what I must, my dear. The oﬀer was too sweet
to refuse. I’m sorry.’
Annabeth pushed over an easel. Architectural drawings
scattered across the ﬂoor. ‘I used to respect you. You were
my hero! You – you built amazing things. You solved
problems. Now… I don’t know what you are. Children of
Athena are supposed to be wise, not just clever. Maybe you
are just a machine. You should have died two thousand
years ago.’
Instead of getting mad, Daedalus hung his head. ‘You
should go warn your camp. Now that Luke has the string –’
Suddenly Mrs O’Leary pricked up her ears.
‘Someone’s coming!’ Rachel warned.
1039
The doors of the workshop burst open, and Nico was
pushed inside, his hands in chains. Then Kelli and two
Laistrygonians marched in behind him, followed by the
ghost of Minos. He looked almost solid now – a pale bearded
king with cold eyes and tendrils of Mist coiling oﬀ his robes.
He ﬁxed his gaze on Daedalus. ‘There you are, my old
friend.’
Daedalus’s jaw clenched. He looked at Kelli. ‘What is the
meaning of this?’
‘Luke sends his compliments,’ Kelli said. ‘He thought you
might like to see your old employer, Minos.’
‘This was not part of our agreement,’ Daedalus said.
‘No indeed,’ Kelli said. ‘But we already have what we want
from you, and we have other agreements to honour. Minos
required something else from us, in order to turn over this
ﬁne young demigod.’ She ran a ﬁnger under Nico’s chin.
‘He’ll be quite useful. And all Minos asked in return was your
head, old man.’
Daedalus paled. ‘Treachery.’
‘Get used to it,’ Kelli said.
‘Nico,’ I said. ‘Are you okay?’
He nodded morosely. ‘I – I’m sorry, Percy. Minos told me
you were in danger. He convinced me to go back into the
maze.’
‘You were trying to help us?’
‘I was tricked,’ he said. ‘He tricked all of us.’
I glared at Kelli. ‘Where’s Luke? Why isn’t he here?’
The she-demon smiled like we were sharing a private joke.
‘Luke is… busy. He is preparing for the assault. But don’t
worry. We have more friends on the way. And in the
meantime, I think I’ll have a wonderful snack!’ Her hands
changed to claws. Her hair burst into ﬂame and her legs
turned to their true form – one donkey leg, one bronze.
‘Percy,’ Rachel whispered, ‘the wings. Do you think –’
‘Get them,’ I said. ‘I’ll try to buy you some time.’
1040
And with that, all Hades broke loose. Annabeth and I
charged at Kelli. The giants came right at Daedalus, but Mrs
O’Leary leaped to his defence. Nico got pushed to the
ground and struggled with his chains while the spirit of
Minos wailed, ‘Kill the inventor! Kill him!’
Rachel grabbed the wings oﬀ the wall. Nobody paid her
any attention. Kelli slashed at Annabeth. I tried to get to her,
but the demon was quick and deadly. She turned over
tables, smashed inventions and wouldn’t let us get close.
Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Mrs O’Leary chomp her
fangs into a giant’s arm. He wailed in pain and ﬂung her
around, trying to shake her oﬀ. Daedalus grabbed for his
sword, but the second giant smashed the workbench with
his ﬁst, and the sword went ﬂying. A clay jar of Greek ﬁre
broke on the ﬂoor and began to burn, green ﬂames
spreading quickly.
‘To me!’ Minos cried. ‘Spirits of the dead!’ He raised his
ghostly hands and the air began to hum.
‘No!’ Nico cried. He was on his feet now. He’d somehow
managed to remove his shackles.
‘You do not control me, young fool,’ Minos sneered. ‘All
this time, I have been controlling you! A soul for a soul, yes.
But it is not your sister who will return from the dead. It is I,
as soon as I slay the inventor!’
Spirits began to appear around Minos – shimmering forms
that slowly multiplied, solidifying into Cretan soldiers.
‘I am the son of Hades,’ Nico insisted. ‘Begone!’
Minos laughed. ‘You have no power over me. I am the lord
of spirits! The ghost king!’
‘No.’ Nico drew his sword. ‘I am.’
He stabbed his black blade into the ﬂoor, and it cleaved
through the stone like butter.
‘Never!’ Minos’s form rippled. ‘I will not –’
The ground rumbled. The windows cracked and shattered
to pieces, letting in a blast of fresh air. A ﬁssure opened in
1041
the stone ﬂoor of the workshop, and Minos and all his spirits
were sucked into the void with a horrible wail.
The bad news: the ﬁght was still going on all around us,
and I let myself get distracted. Kelli pounced on me so fast I
had no time to defend myself. My sword skittered away and
I hit my head hard on a worktable as I fell. My eyesight went
fuzzy. I couldn’t raise my arms.
Kelli laughed. ‘You will taste wonderful!’
She bared her fangs. Then suddenly her body went rigid.
Her red eyes widened. She gasped, ‘No… school… spirit…’
And Annabeth took her knife out of the empousa’s back.
With an awful screech, Kelli dissolved into yellow vapour.
Annabeth helped me up. I still felt dizzy, but we had no
time to lose. Mrs O’Leary and Daedalus were still locked in
combat with the giants, and I could hear shouting in the
tunnel. More monsters were coming towards the workshop.
‘We have to help Daedalus!’ I said.
‘No time,’ Rachel said. ‘Too many coming!’
She’d already ﬁtted herself with wings and was working
on Nico, who looked pale and sweaty from his struggle with
Minos. The wings grafted instantly to his back and arms.
‘Now you!’ she told me.
In seconds, Nico, Annabeth, Rachel and I had ﬁtted
ourselves with coppery wings. Already I could feel myself
being lifted by the wind coming through the window. Greek
ﬁre was burning the tables and furniture, spreading up the
circular stairs.
‘Daedalus!’ I yelled. ‘Come on!’
He was cut in a hundred places – but he was bleeding
golden oil instead of blood. He’d found his sword and was
using part of a smashed table as a shield against the giants.
‘I won’t leave Mrs O’Leary!’ he said. ‘Go!’
There was no time to argue. Even if we stayed, I wasn’t
sure we could help.
‘None of us know how to ﬂy!’ Nico protested.
1042
‘Great time to ﬁnd out,’ I said. And together the four of us
jumped out of the window into open sky.
1043
16    I Open a Coﬃn
 
Jumping out of a window one hundred and ﬁfty metres
above ground is not usually my idea of fun. Especially when
I’m wearing bronze wings and ﬂapping my arms like a duck.
I plummeted towards the valley and the red rocks below. I
was pretty sure I was going to become a grease spot in the
Garden of the Gods, as Annabeth yelled from somewhere
above me, ‘Spread your arms! Keep them extended.’
The small part of my brain that wasn’t engulfed in panic
heard her, and my arms responded. As soon as I spread
them out, the wings stiﬀened, caught the wind and my
descent slowed. I soared downwards, but at a controlled
angle, like a kite in a dive.
Experimentally, I ﬂapped my arms once. I arced into the
sky, the wind whistling in my ears.
‘Yeah!’ I yelled. The feeling was unbelievable. After getting
the hang of it, I felt like the wings were part of my body. I
could soar and swoop and dive anywhere I wanted to.
I turned and saw my friends – Rachel, Annabeth and Nico –
spiralling above me, glinting in the sunlight. Behind them,
smoke billowed from the windows of Daedalus’s workshop.
‘Land!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘These wings won’t last forever.’
‘How long?’ Rachel cried.
‘I don’t want to ﬁnd out!’ Annabeth said.
We swooped down towards the Garden of the Gods. I did a
complete circle around one of the rock spires and freaked
out a couple of climbers. Then the four of us soared across
the valley, over a road, and landed on the terrace of the
visitor centre. It was late afternoon and the place looked
1044
pretty empty, but we ripped oﬀ our wings as quickly as we
could. Looking at them, I could see Annabeth was right. The
self-adhesive seals that bound the wings to our backs were
already melting, and we were shedding bronze feathers. It
seemed a shame, but we couldn’t ﬁx them, and couldn’t
leave them around for the mortals, so we stuﬀed the wings
in the bin outside the cafeteria.
I used the tourist binocular camera to look up at the hill
where Daedalus’s workshop had been, but it had vanished.
No more smoke. No broken windows. Just the side of a hill.
‘The workshop moved,’ Annabeth guessed. ‘There’s no
telling where.’
‘So what do we do now?’ I asked. ‘How do we get back in
the maze?’
Annabeth gazed at the summit of Pikes Peak in the
distance. ‘Maybe we can’t. If Daedalus died… he said his life
force was tied to the Labyrinth. The whole thing might’ve
been destroyed. Maybe that will stop Luke’s invasion.’
I thought about Grover and Tyson, still down there
somewhere. And Daedalus… even though he’d done some
terrible things and put everybody I cared about at risk, it
still seemed like a pretty horrible way to die.
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘He isn’t dead.’
‘How can you be sure?’ I asked.
‘I know when people die. It’s this feeling I get, like a
buzzing in my ears.’
‘What about Tyson and Grover, then?’
Nico shook his head. ‘That’s harder. They’re not humans
or half-bloods. They don’t have mortal souls.’
‘We have to get into town,’ Annabeth decided. ‘Our
chances of ﬁnding an entrance to the Labyrinth will be
better. We have to make it back to camp before Luke and his
army.’
‘We could just take a plane,’ Rachel said.
I shuddered. ‘I don’t ﬂy.’
‘But you just did.’
1045
‘That was low ﬂying,’ I said, ‘and even that’s risky. Flying
up really high – that’s Zeus’s territory. I can’t do it. Besides,
we don’t even have time for a ﬂight. The Labyrinth is the
quickest way back.’
I didn’t want to say it, but I was also hoping that maybe,
just maybe, we would ﬁnd Grover and Tyson along the way.
‘So we need a car to take us into the city,’ Annabeth said.
Rachel looked down into the parking lot. She grimaced, as
if she were about to do something she regretted. ‘I’ll take
care of it.’
‘How?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Just trust me.’
Annabeth looked uneasy, but she nodded. ‘Okay, I’m
going to buy a prism in the gift shop, try to make a rainbow
and send an Iris-message to camp.’
‘I’ll go with you,’ Nico said. ‘I’m hungry.’
‘I’ll stick with Rachel, then,’ I said. ‘Meet you guys in the
parking lot.’
Rachel frowned like she didn’t want me with her. That
made me feel kind of bad, but I followed her down to the
parking lot anyway.
She headed towards a big black car parked at the edge of
the lot. It was a chauﬀeured Lexus, like the kind I always
saw driving around Manhattan. The driver was out at the
front, reading a newspaper. He wore a dark suit and tie.
‘What are you going to do?’ I asked Rachel.
‘Just wait here,’ she said miserably. ‘Please.’
Rachel marched straight up to the driver and talked to
him. He frowned. Rachel said something else. He turned
pale and hastily folded up his magazine. He nodded and
fumbled for his cell phone. After a brief call, he opened the
back door of the car for Rachel to get in. She pointed back
in my direction, and the driver bobbed his head some more,
like Yes, ma’am. Whatever you want.
I couldn’t ﬁgure out why he was acting so ﬂustered.
1046
Rachel came back to get me just as Nico and Annabeth
appeared from the gift shop.
‘I talked to Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘They’re doing their
best to prepare for battle, but he still wants us back. They’re
going to need every hero they can get. Did we ﬁnd a ride?’
‘The driver’s ready when we are,’ Rachel said.
The chauﬀeur was now talking to another guy in khakis
and a polo shirt, probably his client who’d rented the car.
The client was complaining, but I could hear the driver
saying, ‘I’m sorry, sir. Emergency. I’ve ordered another car
for you.’
‘Come on,’ Rachel said. She led us to the car and got in
without even looking at the annoyed guy who’d rented it. A
minute later we were cruising down the road. The seats
were leather. There was plenty of leg room. The back seat
had ﬂat-panel TVs built into the headrests and a mini-fridge
stocked with bottled water, drinks and snacks. We started
pigging out.
‘Where to, Miss Dare?’ the driver asked.
‘I’m not sure yet, Robert,’ she said. ‘We just need to drive
through town and, uh, look around.’
‘Whatever you say, miss.’
I looked at Rachel. ‘Do you know this guy?’
‘No.’
‘But he dropped everything to help you. Why?’
‘Just keep your eyes peeled,’ she said. ‘Help me look.’
Which didn’t exactly answer my question.
We drove through Colorado Springs for about half an hour
and saw nothing that Rachel considered a possible Labyrinth
entrance. I was very aware of Rachel’s shoulder pressing
against mine. I kept wondering who she was exactly, and
how she could walk up to some random chauﬀeur and
immediately get a ride.
After about an hour we decided to head north towards
Denver, thinking that maybe a bigger city would be more
1047
likely to have a Labyrinth entrance, but we were all getting
nervous. We were losing time.
Then, right as we were leaving Colorado Springs, Rachel
sat bolt upright. ‘Get oﬀ the highway!’
The driver glanced back. ‘Miss?’
‘I saw something, I think. Get oﬀ here.’
The driver swerved across traﬃc and took the exit.
‘What did you see?’ I asked, because we were pretty much
out of the city now. There wasn’t anything around except
hills, grassland and some scattered farm buildings.
Rachel had the driver turn down this unpromising dirt
road. We drove by a sign too fast for me to read it, but
Rachel said, ‘Western Museum of Mining and Industry.’
For a museum, it didn’t look like much – a little house like
an old-fashioned railroad station, some drills and pumps and
old steam shovels on display outside.
‘There.’ Rachel pointed to a hole in the side of a nearby
hill – a tunnel that was boarded up and chained. ‘An old
mine entrance.’
‘A door to the Labyrinth?’ Annabeth asked. ‘How can you
be sure?’
‘Well, look at it!’ Rachel said. ‘I mean… I can see it, okay?’
She thanked the driver and we all got out. He didn’t ask
for money or anything. ‘Are you sure you’ll be all right, Miss
Dare? I’d be happy to call your –’
‘No!’ Rachel said. ‘No, really. Thanks, Robert. But we’re
ﬁne.’
The museum seemed to be closed, so nobody bothered us
as we climbed the hill to the mine shaft. When we got to the
entrance, I saw the mark of Daedalus engraved on the
padlock, though how Rachel had seen something so tiny all
the way from the highway I had no idea. I touched the
padlock and the chains fell away. We kicked down a few
boards and walked inside. For better or worse, we were back
in the Labyrinth.
1048
The dirt tunnels turned to stone. They wound around and
split oﬀ and basically tried to confuse us, but Rachel had no
trouble guiding us. We told her we needed to get back to
New York, and she hardly even paused when the tunnels
oﬀered a choice.
To my surprise, Rachel and Annabeth started up a
conversation as we walked. Annabeth asked her more about
her background, but Rachel was evasive so they started
talking about architecture. It turned out that Rachel knew
something about it from studying art. They talked about
diﬀerent facades on buildings around New York – ‘Have you
seen this one,’ blah, blah, blah, so I hung back and walked
next to Nico in uncomfortable silence.
‘Thanks for coming after us,’ I told him at last.
Nico’s eyes narrowed. He didn’t seem as angry as he used
to – just suspicious, careful. ‘I owed you for the ranch, Percy.
Plus… I wanted to see Daedalus for myself. Minos was right,
in a way. Daedalus should die. Nobody should be able to
avoid death that long. It’s not natural.’
‘That’s what you were after all along,’ I said. ‘Trading
Daedalus’s soul for your sister’s.’
Nico walked for another ﬁfty metres before answering. ‘It
hasn’t been easy, you know. Having only the dead for
company. Knowing that I’ll never be accepted by the living.
Only the dead respect me, and they only do that out of fear.’
‘You could be accepted,’ I said. ‘You could have friends at
camp.’
He stared at me. ‘Do you really believe that, Percy?’
I didn’t answer. The truth was, I didn’t know. Nico had
always been a little diﬀerent, but since Bianca’s death, he’d
become almost… scary. He had his father’s eyes – that
intense, manic ﬁre that made you suspect he was either a
genius or a madman. And the way he’d banished Minos, and
called himself the king of ghosts – it was kind of impressive,
but it made me uncomfortable, too.
1049
Before I could ﬁgure out what to tell him, I ran into Rachel,
who’d stopped in front of me. We’d come to a crossroads.
The tunnel continued straight ahead, but a side tunnel T’d
oﬀ to the right – a circular shaft carved from black volcanic
rock.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
Rachel stared down the dark tunnel. In the dim ﬂashlight
beam, her face looked like one of Nico’s spectres.
‘Is that the way?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ Rachel said nervously. ‘Not at all.’
‘Why are we stopping, then?’ I asked.
‘Listen,’ Nico said.
I heard wind coming down the tunnel, as if the exit were
close. And I smelled something vaguely familiar – something
that brought back bad memories.
‘Eucalyptus trees,’ I said. ‘Like in California.’
Last winter, when we’d faced Luke and the Titan Atlas on
top of Mount Tamalpais, the air had smelled just like that.
‘There’s something evil down that tunnel,’ Rachel said.
‘Something very powerful.’
‘And the smell of death,’ Nico added, which made me feel
a whole lot better.
Annabeth and I exchanged glances.
‘Luke’s entrance,’ she guessed. ‘The one to Mount Othrys
– the Titans’ palace.’
‘I have to check it out,’ I said.
‘Percy, no.’
‘Luke could be right there,’ I said. ‘Or… or Kronos. I have
to ﬁnd out what’s going on.’
Annabeth hesitated. ‘Then we’ll all go.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘It’s too dangerous. If they got hold of Nico, or
Rachel for that matter, Kronos could use them. You stay
here and guard them.’
What I didn’t say: I was also worried about Annabeth. I
didn’t trust what she would do if she saw Luke again. He had
fooled her and manipulated her too many times before.
1050
‘Percy, don’t,’ Rachel said. ‘Don’t go up there alone.’
‘I’ll be quick,’ I promised. ‘I won’t do anything stupid.’
Annabeth took her Yankees cap out of her pocket. ‘At least
take this. And be careful.’
‘Thanks,’ I remembered the last time Annabeth and I had
parted ways, when she’d given me a kiss for luck in Mount
St Helens. This time, all I got was the hat.
I put it on. ‘Here goes nothing,’ And I sneaked invisibly
down the dark stone tunnel.
Before I even got to the exit I heard voices: the growling,
barking sounds of sea-demon smiths, the telkhines.
‘At least we salvaged the blade,’ one said. ‘The master
will still reward us.’
‘Yes! Yes!’ a second shrieked. ‘Rewards beyond measure!’
Another voice, this one more human, said: ‘Um, yeah, well
that’s great. Now, if you’re done with me –’
‘No, half-blood!’ a telkhine said. ‘You must help us make
the presentation. It is a great honour!’
‘Gee, thanks,’ the half-blood said, and I realized it was
Ethan Nakamura, the guy who’d run away after I’d saved his
sorry life in the arena.
I crept towards the end of the tunnel. I had to remind
myself I was invisible. They shouldn’t be able to see me.
A blast of cold air hit me as I emerged. I was standing
near the top of Mount Tam. The Paciﬁc Ocean spread out
below, grey under a cloudy sky. About six metres downhill,
two telkhines were placing something on a big rock –
something long and thin and wrapped in black cloth. Ethan
was helping them open it.
‘Careful, fool,’ the telkhine scolded. ‘One touch, and the
blade will sever your soul from your body.’
Ethan swallowed nervously. ‘Maybe I’ll let you unwrap it,
then.’
I glanced up at the mountain’s peak, where a black
marble fortress loomed, just like I’d seen in my dreams. It
1051
reminded me of an oversized mausoleum, with walls ﬁfteen
metres high. I had no idea how mortals could miss the fact
that it was here. But, then again, everything below the
summit seemed fuzzy to me, as if there were a thick veil
between me and the lower half of the mountain. There was
magic going on here – really powerful Mist. Above me, the
sky swirled into a huge funnel cloud. I couldn’t see Atlas, but
I could hear him groaning in the distance, still labouring
under the weight of the sky, just beyond the fortress.
‘There!’ the telkhine said. Reverently, he lifted the
weapon, and my blood turned to ice.
It was a scythe – a two-metre-long blade curved like a
crescent moon, with a wooden handle wrapped in leather.
The blade glinted two diﬀerent colours – steel and bronze. It
was the weapon of Kronos, the one he’d used to slice up his
father, Ouranos, before the gods had taken it away from him
and cut Kronos to pieces, casting him into Tartarus. Now the
weapon was reforged.
‘We must sanctify it in blood,’ the telkhine said. ‘Then you,
half-blood, shall help present it when the lord awakes.’
I ran towards the fortress, my pulse pounding in my ears. I
didn’t want to get anywhere close to that horrible black
mausoleum, but I knew what I had to do. I had to stop
Kronos from rising. This might be my only chance.
I dashed through a dark foyer and into the main hall. The
ﬂoor shone like a mahogany piano – pure black and yet full
of light. Black marble statues lined the walls. I didn’t
recognize the faces, but I knew I was looking at images of
the Titans who’d ruled before the gods. At the end of the
room, between two bronze braziers, was a dais. And on the
dais, the golden sarcophagus.
The room was silent except for the crackle of the ﬁres.
Luke wasn’t here. No guards. Nothing.
It was too easy, but I approached the dais.
The sarcophagus was just like I remembered – about three
metres long, much too big for a human. It was carved with
1052
elaborate scenes of death and destruction, pictures of the
gods being trampled under chariots, temples and famous
world landmarks being smashed and burned. The whole
coﬃn gave oﬀ an aura of extreme cold, like I was walking
into a freezer. My breath began to steam.
I drew Riptide and took a little comfort from the familiar
weight of the sword in my hand.
Whenever I’d approached Kronos before, his evil voice had
spoken in my mind. Why was he silent now? He’d been
shredded into a thousand pieces, cut with his own scythe.
What would I ﬁnd if I opened that lid? How could they make
a new body for him?
I had no answers. I just knew that if he was about to rise, I
had to strike him down before he got his scythe. I had to
ﬁgure out a way to stop him.
I stood over the coﬃn. The lid was decorated even more
intricately than the sides – with scenes of carnage and
power. In the middle was an inscription carved in letters
even older than Greek, a language of magic. I couldn’t read
it, exactly, but I knew what it said: KRONOS, LORD OF TIME.
My hand touched the lid. My ﬁngertips turned blue. Frost
gathered on my sword.
Then I heard noises behind me – voices approaching. It
was now or never. I pushed back the golden lid and it fell to
the ﬂoor with a huge WHOOOOM!
I lifted my sword, ready to strike. But when I looked inside
I didn’t comprehend what I was seeing. Mortal legs, dressed
in grey trousers. A white T-shirt, hands folded over his
stomach. One piece of his chest was missing – a clean black
hole about the size of a bullet wound, right where his heart
should’ve been. His eyes were closed. His skin was pale.
Blond hair… and a scar running along the left side of his
face.
The body in the coﬃn was Luke’s.
1053
I should have stabbed him right then. I should’ve brought
the point of Riptide down with all my strength.
But I was too stunned. I didn’t understand. As much as I
hated Luke, as much as he had betrayed me, I just didn’t
get why he was in the coﬃn, and why he looked so very,
very dead.
Then the voices of the telkhines were right behind me.
‘What has happened!’ one of the demons screamed when
he saw the lid. I stumbled away from the dais, forgetting
that I was invisible, and hid behind a column as they
approached.
‘Careful!’ the other demon warned. ‘Perhaps he stirs. We
must present the gifts now. Immediately!’
The two telkhines shuﬄed forward and knelt, holding up
the scythe on its wrapping cloth. ‘My lord,’ one said. ‘Your
symbol of power is remade.’
Silence. Nothing happened in the coﬃn.
‘You fool,’ the other telkhine muttered. ‘He requires the
half-blood ﬁrst.’
Ethan stepped back. ‘Whoa, what do you mean, he
requires me?’
‘Don’t be a coward!’ the ﬁrst telkhine hissed. ‘He does not
require your death. Only your allegiance. Pledge him your
service. Renounce the gods. That is all.’
‘No!’ I yelled. It was a stupid thing to do, but I charged
into the room and took oﬀ the cap. ‘Ethan, don’t!’
‘Trespasser!’ The telkhines bared their seal teeth. ‘The
master will deal with you soon enough. Hurry, boy!’
‘Ethan,’ I pleaded, ‘don’t listen to them. Help me destroy
it.’
Ethan turned towards me, his eye patch blending in with
the shadows on his face. His expression was something like
pity. ‘I told you not to spare me, Percy. “An eye for an eye.”
You ever hear that saying? I learned what it means the hard
way – when I discovered my godly parent. I’m the child of
1054
Nemesis, Goddess of Revenge. And this is what I was made
to do.’
He turned towards the dais. ‘I renounce the gods! What
have they ever done for me? I will see them destroyed. I will
serve Kronos.’
The building rumbled. A wisp of blue light rose from the
ﬂoor at Ethan Nakamura’s feet. It drifted towards the coﬃn
and began to shimmer, like a cloud of pure energy. Then it
descended into the sarcophagus.
Luke sat bolt upright. His eyes opened, and they were no
longer blue. They were golden, the same colour as the
coﬃn. The hole in his chest was gone. He was complete. He
leaped out of the coﬃn with ease, and where his feet
touched the ﬂoor, the marble froze like craters of ice.
He looked at Ethan and the telkhines with those horrible
golden eyes, as if he were a newborn baby, not sure what
he was seeing. Then he looked at me, and a smile of
recognition crept across his mouth.
‘This body has been well prepared.’ His voice was like a
razor blade running over my skin. It was Luke’s, but not
Luke’s. Underneath his voice was another, more horrible
sound – an ancient, cold sound like metal scraping against
rock. ‘Don’t you think so, Percy Jackson?’
I couldn’t move. I couldn’t answer.
Kronos threw back his head and laughed. The scar on his
face rippled.
‘Luke feared you,’ the Titan’s voice said. ‘His jealousy and
hatred have been powerful tools. It has kept him obedient.
For that I thank you.’
Ethan collapsed in terror. He covered his face with his
hands. The telkhines trembled, holding up the scythe.
Finally I found my nerve. I lunged at the thing that used to
be Luke, thrusting my blade straight at his chest, but his
skin deﬂected the blow like he was made of pure steel. He
looked at me with amusement. Then he ﬂicked his hand,
and I ﬂew across the room.
1055
I slammed against a pillar. I struggled to my feet, blinking
the stars out of my eyes, but Kronos had already grasped
the handle of his scythe.
‘Ah… much better,’ he said. ‘Backbiter, Luke called it. An
appropriate name. Now that it is reforged completely, it
shall indeed bite back.’
‘What have you done to Luke?’ I groaned.
Kronos raised his scythe. ‘He serves me with his whole
being, as I require. The diﬀerence is, he feared you, Percy
Jackson. I do not.’
That’s when I ran. There wasn’t even any thought to it. No
debate in my mind about – gee, should I stand up to him
and try to ﬁght again? Nope. I simply ran.
But my feet felt like lead. Time slowed down around me,
like the world was turning to Jell-O. I’d had this feeling once
before, and I knew it was the power of Kronos. His presence
was so strong it could bend time itself.
‘Run, little hero,’ he laughed. ‘Run!’
I glanced back and saw him approaching leisurely,
swinging his scythe as if he were enjoying the feel of having
it in his hands again. No weapon in the world could stop
him. No amount of celestial bronze.
He was three metres away when I heard, ‘PERCY!’
Rachel’s voice.
Something ﬂew past me, and a blue plastic hairbrush hit
Kronos in the eye.
‘Owl’ he yelled. For a moment it was only Luke’s voice, full
of surprise and pain. My limbs were freed and I ran straight
into Rachel, Nico and Annabeth, who were standing in the
entry hall, their eyes wide with dismay.
‘Luke?’ Annabeth called. ‘What –’
I grabbed her by the shirt and hauled her after me. I ran
as fast as I’ve ever run, straight out of the fortress. We were
almost back to the Labyrinth entrance when I heard the
loudest bellow in the world – the voice of Kronos, coming
back into control. ‘AFTER THEM!’
1056
‘No!’ Nico yelled. He clapped his hands together, and a
jagged spire of rock the size of an eighteen-wheeler erupted
from the ground right in front of the fortress. The tremor it
caused was so powerful, the front columns of the building
came crashing down. I heard muﬄed screams from the
telkhines inside. Dust billowed everywhere.
We plunged into the Labyrinth and kept running, the howl
of the Titan lord shaking the entire world behind us.
1057
17    The Lost God Speaks
 
We ran until we were exhausted. Rachel steered us away
from traps, but we had no destination in mind – only away
from that dark mountain and the roar of Kronos.
We stopped in a tunnel of wet white rock, like part of a
natural cave. I couldn’t hear anything behind us, but I didn’t
feel any safer. I could still remember those unnatural golden
eyes staring out of Luke’s face, and the feeling that my
limbs were slowly turning to stone.
‘I can’t go any further,’ Rachel gasped, hugging her chest.
Annabeth had been crying the entire time we’d been
running. Now she collapsed and put her head between her
knees. Her sobs echoed in the tunnel. Nico and I sat next to
each other. He dropped his sword next to mine and took a
shaky breath.
‘That sucked,’ he said, which I thought summed things up
pretty well.
‘You saved our lives,’ I said.
Nico wiped the dust oﬀ his face. ‘Blame the girls for
dragging me along. That’s the only thing they could agree
on. We needed to help you or you’d mess things up.’
‘Nice that they trust me so much.’ I shone my ﬂashlight
across the cavern. Water dripped from the stalactites like a
slow-motion rain. ‘Nico … you, uh, kind of gave yourself
away.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘That wall of black stone? That was pretty impressive. If
Kronos didn’t know who you were before, he does now – a
child of the Underworld.’
1058
Nico frowned. ‘Big deal.’
I let it drop. I ﬁgured he was just trying to hide how scared
he was, and I couldn’t blame him.
Annabeth lifted her head. Her eyes were red from crying.
‘What … what was wrong with Luke? What did they do to
him?’
I told her what I’d seen in the coﬃn, the way the last piece
of Kronos’s spirit had entered Luke’s body when Ethan
Nakamura pledged his service.
‘No,’ Annabeth said. ‘That can’t be true. He couldn’t –’
‘He gave himself over to Kronos,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry,
Annabeth. But Luke is gone.’
‘No!’ she insisted. ‘You saw when Rachel hit him.’
I nodded, looking at Rachel with respect. ‘You hit the Lord
of the Titans in the eye with a blue plastic hairbrush.’
Rachel looked embarrassed. ‘It was the only thing I had.’
‘But you saw,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘When it hit him, just for
a second, he was dazed. He came back to his senses.’
‘So maybe Kronos wasn’t completely settled in the body,
or whatever,’ I said. ‘It doesn’t mean Luke was in control.’
‘You want him to be evil, is that it?’ Annabeth yelled. ‘You
didn’t know him before, Percy. I did!’
‘What is it with you?’ I snapped. ‘Why do you keep
defending him?’
‘Whoa, you two,’ Rachel said. ‘Knock it oﬀ.’
Annabeth turned on her. ‘Stay out of it, mortal girl! If it
wasn’t for you …’
Whatever she was going to say, her voice broke. She put
her head down again and sobbed miserably. I wanted to
comfort her, but I didn’t know how. I still felt stunned, like
Kronos’s time-slowing eﬀect had aﬀected my brain. I just
couldn’t comprehend what I’d seen. Kronos was alive. He
was armed. And the end of the world was probably close at
hand.
‘We have to keep moving,’ Nico said. ‘He’ll send monsters
after us.’
1059
Nobody was in any shape to run, but Nico was right. I
hauled myself up and helped Rachel to her feet.
‘You were great back there,’ I told her.
She managed a weak smile. ‘Yeah, well. I didn’t want you
to die.’ She blushed. ‘I mean … just because, you know. You
owe me too many favours. How am I going to collect if you
die?’
I knelt next to Annabeth. ‘Hey, I’m sorry. We need to
move.’
‘I know,’ she said. ‘I’m … I’m all right.’
She was clearly not all right. But she got to her feet, and
we started straggling through the Labyrinth again.
‘Back to New York,’ I said. ‘Rachel, can you –’
I froze. A few metres in front of us, my ﬂashlight beam
ﬁxed on a trampled clump of red fabric lying on the ground.
It was a Rasta cap: the one Grover always wore.
∗  ∗  ∗
 
My hands shook as I picked up the cap. It looked like it had
been stepped on by a huge muddy boot. After all that I’d
gone through today, I couldn’t stand the thought that
something might’ve happened to Grover, too.
Then I noticed something else. The cave ﬂoor was mushy
and wet from the water dripping oﬀ the stalactites. There
were large footprints like Tyson’s, and smaller ones – goat
hooves – leading oﬀ to the left.
‘We have to follow them,’ I said. ‘They went that way. It
must have been recently.’
‘What about Camp Half-Blood?’ Nico said. ‘There’s no
time.’
‘We have to ﬁnd them,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘They’re our
friends.’
She picked up Grover’s smashed cap and forged ahead.
I followed, bracing myself for the worst. The tunnel was
treacherous. It sloped at weird angles and was slimy with
1060
moisture. Half the time we were slipping and sliding rather
than walking.
Finally we got to the bottom of a slope and found
ourselves in a large cave with huge stalagmite columns.
Through the centre of the room ran an underground river,
and Tyson was sitting by the bank, cradling Grover in his lap.
Grover’s eyes were closed. He wasn’t moving.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
‘Percy! Come quick!’
We ran over to him. Grover wasn’t dead, thank the gods,
but his whole body trembled like he was freezing to death.
‘What happened?’ I asked.
‘So many things,’ Tyson murmured. ‘Large snake. Large
dogs. Men with swords. But then … we got close to here.
Grover was excited. He ran. Then we reached this room, and
he fell. Like this.’
‘Did he say anything?’ I asked.
‘He said, ‘We’re close.’ Then he hit his head on rocks.’
I knelt next to him. The only other time I’d seen Grover
pass out was in New Mexico, when he’d felt the presence of
Pan.
I shone my ﬂashlight around the cavern. The rocks
glittered. At the far end was the entrance to another cave,
ﬂanked by gigantic columns of crystal that looked like
diamonds. And beyond that entrance …
‘Grover,’ I said. ‘Wake up.’
‘Uhhhhhhhh.’
Annabeth knelt next to him and splashed icy cold river
water in his face.
‘Splurg!’ His eyelids ﬂuttered. ‘Percy? Annabeth? Where
…’
‘It’s okay,’ I said. ‘You passed out. The presence was too
much for you.’
‘I – I remember. Pan.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Something powerful is just beyond that
doorway.’
1061
I made quick introductions, since Tyson and Grover had
never met Rachel. Tyson told Rachel she was pretty, which
made Annabeth’s nostrils ﬂare like she was going to blow
ﬁre.
‘Anyway,’ I said. ‘Come on, Grover. Lean on me.’
Annabeth and I helped him up, and together we waded
across the underground river. The current was strong. The
water came up to our waists. I willed myself to stay dry,
which is a handy little ability, but that didn’t help the others,
and I could still feel the cold, like wading through a
snowdrift.
‘I think we’re in Carlsbad Caverns,’ Annabeth said, her
teeth chattering. ‘Maybe an unexplored section.’
‘How do you know?’
‘Carlsbad is in New Mexico,’ she said. ‘That would explain
last winter.’
I nodded. Grover’s swooning episode had happened when
we passed through New Mexico. That’s where he’d felt
closest to the power of Pan.
We got out of the water and kept walking. As the crystal
pillars loomed larger, I started to feel the power emanating
from the next room. I’d been in the presence of gods before,
but this was diﬀerent. My skin tingled with living energy. My
weariness fell away, as if I’d just had a good night’s sleep. I
could feel myself growing stronger, like one of those plants
in a time-lapse video. And the scent coming from the cave
was nothing like the dank wet underground. It smelled of
trees and ﬂowers and a warm summer day.
Grover whimpered with excitement. I was too stunned to
talk. Even Nico seemed speechless. We stepped into the
cave, and Rachel said, ‘Oh, wow.’
The walls glittered with crystals – red, green and blue. In
the strange light, beautiful plants grew – giant orchids, star-
shaped ﬂowers, vines bursting with orange and purple
berries that crept among the crystals. The cave ﬂoor was
covered with soft green moss. Overhead, the ceiling was
1062
higher than a cathedral, sparkling like a galaxy of stars. In
the centre of the cave stood a Roman-style bed, gilded
wood shaped like a curly U, with velvet cushions. Animals
lounged around it – but they were animals that shouldn’t
have been alive. There was a dodo bird, something that
looked like a cross between a wolf and a tiger, a huge
rodent like the mother of all guinea pigs and, roaming
behind the bed, picking berries with its trunk, was a woolly
mammoth.
On the bed lay an old satyr. He watched us as we
approached, his eyes as blue as the sky. His curly hair was
white and so was his pointed beard. Even the goat fur on his
legs was frosted with grey. His horns were enormous –
glossy brown and curved. There was no way he could’ve
hidden those under a hat, the way Grover did. Around his
neck hung a set of reed pipes.
Grover fell to his knees in front of the bed. ‘Lord Pan!’
The god smiled kindly, but there was sadness in his eyes.
‘Grover, my dear, brave satyr. I have waited a very long
time for you.’
‘I … got lost,’ Grover apologized.
Pan laughed. It was a wonderful sound, like the ﬁrst
breeze of springtime, ﬁlling the whole cavern with hope. The
tiger-wolf sighed and rested his head on the god’s knee. The
dodo bird pecked aﬀectionately at the god’s hooves, making
a strange sound in the back of its bill. I could swear it was
humming ‘It’s a Small World’.
Still, Pan looked tired. His whole form shimmered as if he
were made of Mist.
I noticed my other friends were kneeling. They had awed
looks on their faces. I got to my knees.
‘You have a humming dodo bird,’ I said stupidly.
The god’s eyes twinkled. ‘Yes, that’s Dede. My little
actress.’
Dede the dodo looked oﬀended. She pecked at Pan’s knee
and hummed something that sounded like a funeral dirge.
1063
‘This is the most beautiful place!’ Annabeth said. ‘It’s
better than any building ever designed.’
‘I’m glad you like it, dear,’ Pan said. ‘It is one of the last
wild places. My realm above is gone, I’m afraid. Only
pockets remain. Tiny pieces of life. This one shall stay
undisturbed … for a little longer.’
‘My lord,’ Grover said, ‘please, you must come back with
me! The Elders will never believe it! They’ll be overjoyed!
You can save the wild!’
Pan placed his hand on Grover’s head and ruﬄed his curly
hair. ‘You are so young, Grover. So good and true. I think I
chose well.’
‘Chose?’ Grover said. ‘I – I don’t understand.’
Pan’s image ﬂickered, momentarily turning to smoke. The
giant guinea pig scuttled under the bed with a terriﬁed
squeal. The woolly mammoth grunted nervously. Dede stuck
her head under her wing. Then Pan re-formed.
‘I have slept many aeons,’ the god said forlornly. ‘My
dreams have been dark. I wake ﬁtfully, and each time my
waking is shorter. Now we are near the end.’
‘What?’ Grover cried. ‘But no! You’re right here!’
‘My dear satyr,’ Pan said. ‘I tried to tell the world, two
thousand years ago. I announced it to Lysas, a satyr very
much like you. He lived in Ephesos, and he tried to spread
the word.’
Annabeth’s eyes widened. ‘The old story. A sailor passing
by the coast of Ephesos heard a voice crying from the shore,
“Tell them the great god Pan is dead.”’
‘But that wasn’t true!’ Grover said.
‘Your kind never believed it,’ Pan said. ‘You sweet,
stubborn satyrs refused to accept my passing. And I love
you for that, but you only delayed the inevitable. You only
prolonged my long, painful passing, my dark twilight sleep.
It must end.’
‘No!’ Grover’s voice trembled.
1064
‘Dear Grover,’ Pan said. ‘You must accept the truth. Your
companion, Nico, he understands.’
Nico nodded slowly. ‘He’s dying. He should have died long
ago. This … this is more like a memory.’
‘But gods can’t die,’ Grover said.
‘They can fade,’ Pan said, ‘when everything they stood for
is gone. When they cease to have power, and their sacred
places disappear. The wild, my dear Grover, is so small now,
so shattered, that no god can save it. My realm is gone.
That is why I need you to carry a message. You must go
back to the council. You must tell the satyrs, and the dryads,
and the other spirits of nature, that the great god Pan is
dead. Tell them of my passing. Because they must stop
waiting for me to save them. I cannot. The only salvation
you must make yourself. Each of you must –’
He stopped and frowned at the dodo bird, who had started
humming again.
‘Dede, what are you doing?’ Pan demanded. ‘Are you
singing “Kumbaya” again?’
Dede looked up innocently and blinked her yellow eyes.
Pan sighed. ‘Everybody’s a cynic. But as I was saying, my
dear Grover, each of you must take up my calling.’
‘But … no!’ Grover whimpered.
‘Be strong,’ Pan said. ‘You have found me. And now you
must release me. You must carry on my spirit. It can no
longer be carried by a god. It must be taken up by all of
you.’
Pan looked straight at me with his clear blue eyes, and I
realized he wasn’t just talking about the satyrs. He meant
half-bloods, too, and humans. Everyone.
‘Percy Jackson,’ the god said. ‘I know what you have seen
today. I know your doubts. But I give you this news: when
the time comes, you will not be ruled by fear.’
He turned to Annabeth. ‘Daughter of Athena, your time is
coming. You will play a great role, though it may not be the
role you imagined.’
1065
Then he looked at Tyson. ‘Master Cyclops, do not despair.
Heroes rarely live up to our expectations. But you, Tyson –
your name shall live among the Cyclopes for generations.
And Miss Rachel Dare …’
Rachel ﬂinched when he said her name. She backed away
like she was guilty of something, but Pan only smiled. He
raised his hand in a blessing.
‘I know you believe you cannot make amends,’ he said.
‘But you are just as important as your father.’
‘I –’ Rachel faltered. A tear traced her cheek.
‘I know you don’t believe this now,’ Pan said. ‘But look for
opportunities. They will come.’
Finally he turned back towards Grover. ‘My dear satyr,’
Pan said kindly. ‘Will you carry my message?’
‘I – I can’t.’
‘You can,’ Pan said. ‘You are the strongest and bravest.
Your heart is true. You have believed in me more than
anyone ever has, which is why you must bring the message,
and why you must be the ﬁrst to release me.’
‘I don’t want to.’
‘I know,’ the god said. ‘But my name, Pan … originally it
meant rustic. Did you know that? But over the years it has
come to mean all. The spirit of the wild must pass to all of
you now. You must tell each one you meet: if you would ﬁnd
Pan, take up Pan’s spirit. Remake the wild, a little at a time,
each in your own corner of the world. You cannot wait for
anyone else, even a god, to do that for you.’
Grover wiped his eyes. Then slowly he stood. ‘I’ve spent
my whole life looking for you. Now … I release you.’
Pan smiled. ‘Thank you, dear satyr. My ﬁnal blessing.’
He closed his eyes, and the god dissolved. White mist
divided into wisps of energy, but this kind of energy wasn’t
scary like the blue power I’d seen from Kronos. It ﬁlled the
room. A curl of smoke went straight into my mouth, and
Grover’s, and the others’. But I think a little more of it went
into Grover. The crystals dimmed. The animals gave us a
1066
sad look. Dede the dodo sighed. Then they all turned grey
and crumbled to dust. The vines withered. And we were
alone in a dark cave, with an empty bed.
I switched on my ﬂashlight.
Grover took a deep breath.
‘Are… are you okay?’ I asked him.
He looked older and sadder. He took his cap from
Annabeth, brushed oﬀ the mud, and stuck it ﬁrmly on his
curly head.
‘We should go now,’ he said, ‘and tell them. The great god
Pan is dead.’
1067
18    Grover Causes a Stampede
 
Distance was shorter in the Labyrinth. Still, by the time
Rachel got us back to Times Square, I felt like we’d pretty
much run all the way from New Mexico. We climbed out of
the Marriott basement and stood on the sidewalk in the
bright summer daylight, squinting at the traﬃc and crowds.
I couldn’t decide which seemed less real – New York or the
crystal cave where I’d watched a god die.
I led the way into an alley, where I could get a nice echo.
Then I whistled as loud as I could, ﬁve times.
A minute later, Rachel gasped. ‘They’re beautiful!’
A ﬂock of pegasi descended from the sky, swooping
between the skyscrapers. Blackjack was in the lead,
followed by four of his white friends.
Yo, boss! He spoke in my mind. You lived!
‘Yeah,’ I told him. ‘I’m lucky that way. Listen, we need a
ride to camp quick.’
That’s my speciality! Oh man, you got that Cyclops with
you? Yo, Guide! How’s your back holding up?
The pegasus Guido groaned and complained, but
eventually he agreed to carry Tyson. Everybody started
saddling up – except Rachel.
‘Well,’ she told me, ‘I guess this is it.’
I nodded uncomfortably. We both knew she couldn’t go to
camp. I glanced at Annabeth, who was pretending to be
very busy with her pegasus.
‘Thanks, Rachel,’ I said. ‘We couldn’t have done it without
you.’
1068
‘I wouldn’t have missed it. I mean, except for almost
dying, and Pan…’ Her voice faltered.
‘He said something about your father,’ I remembered.
‘What did he mean?’
Rachel twisted the strap on her backpack. ‘My dad… My
dad’s job. He’s kind of a famous businessman.’
‘You mean … you’re rich?’
‘Well, yeah.’
‘So that’s how you got the chauﬀeur to help us? You just
said your dad’s name and –’
‘Yes,’ Rachel cut me oﬀ. ‘Percy… my dad’s a land
developer. He ﬂies all over the world, looking for tracts of
undeveloped land.’ She took a shaky breath. ‘The wild. He –
he buys it up. I hate it, but he ploughs it down and builds
ugly subdivisions and shopping centres. And now that I’ve
seen Pan… Pan’s death –’
‘Hey, you can’t blame yourself for that.’
‘You don’t know the worst of it. I – I don’t like to talk about
my family. I didn’t want you to know. I’m sorry. I shouldn’t
have said anything.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘It’s cool. Look, Rachel, you were awesome.
You led us through the maze. You were so brave. That’s the
only thing I’m going to judge you on. I don’t care what your
dad does.’
Rachel looked at me gratefully. ‘Well… if you ever feel like
hanging out with a mortal again… you could call me or
something.’
‘Uh, yeah. Sure.’
She 
knitted 
her 
eyebrows. 
I 
guess 
I 
sounded
unenthusiastic or something, but that’s not how I meant it. I
just wasn’t sure what to say with all my friends standing
around. And I guess my feelings had got pretty mixed up,
the last couple of days.
‘I mean… I’d like that,’ I said.
‘My number’s not in the book,’ she said.
‘I’ve got it.’
1069
‘Still on your hand? No way.’
‘No. I kinda… memorized it.’
Her smile came back slowly, but a lot happier. ‘See you
later, Percy Jackson. Go save the world for me, okay?’
She walked oﬀ down Seventh Avenue and disappeared
into the crowds.
When I got back to the horses, Nico was having trouble. His
pegasus kept shying away from him, reluctant to let him
mount.
He smells like dead people! the pegasus complained.
Hey now, Blackjack said. Come on, Porkpie. Lotsa
demigods smell weird. It ain’t their fault. Oh – uh, I didn’t
mean you, boss.
‘Go without me!’ Nico said. ‘I don’t want to go back to that
camp anyway.’
‘Nico,’ I said, ‘we need your help.’
He folded his arms and scowled. Then Annabeth put her
hand on his shoulder.
‘Nico,’ she said. ‘Please.’
Slowly, his expression softened. ‘All right,’ he said
reluctantly. ‘For you. But I’m not staying.’
I raised an eyebrow at Annabeth, like, How come all of a
sudden Nico listens to you? She stuck her tongue out at me.
At last we got everybody on a pegasus. We shot into the
air, and soon we were over the East River, with Long Island
spread out before us.
We landed in the middle of the cabin area and were
immediately met by Chiron, the potbellied satyr Silenus and
a couple of Apollo cabin archers. Chiron raised an eyebrow
when he saw Nico, but if I expected him to be surprised by
our latest news about Quintus being Daedalus, or Kronos
rising, I was mistaken.
‘I feared as much,’ Chiron said. ‘We must hurry. Hopefully
you have slowed down the Titan lord, but his vanguard will
1070
still be coming through. They will be anxious for blood. Most
of our defenders are already in place. Come!’
‘Wait a moment,’ Silenus demanded. ‘What of the search
for Pan? You are almost three weeks overdue, Grover
Underwood! Your searcher’s licence is revoked!’
Grover took a deep breath. He stood up straight and
looked Silenus in the eye. ‘Searchers’ licences don’t matter
any more. The great god Pan is dead. He has passed on and
left us his spirit.’
‘What?’ Silenus’s face turned bright red. ‘Sacrilege and
lies! Grover Underwood, I will have you exiled for speaking
thus!’
‘It’s true,’ I said. ‘We were there when he died. All of us.’
‘Impossible! You are all liars! Nature-destroyers!’
Chiron studied Grover’s face. ‘We will speak of this later.’
‘We will speak of it now!’ Silenus said. ‘We must deal with
this –’
‘Silenus,’ Chiron cut in. ‘My camp is under attack. The
matter of Pan has waited two thousand years. I fear it will
have to wait a bit longer. Assuming we are still here this
evening.’
And on that happy note, he readied his bow and galloped
towards the woods, leaving us to follow as best we could.
It was the biggest military operation I’d ever seen at camp.
Everyone was at the clearing, dressed in full battle armour,
but this time it wasn’t for capture the ﬂag. The Hephaestus
cabin had set up traps around the entrance to the Labyrinth
– razor wire, pits ﬁlled with pots of Greek ﬁre, rows of
sharpened sticks to deﬂect a charge. Beckendorf was
manning two catapults the size of pickup trucks, already
primed and aimed at Zeus’s Fist. The Ares cabin was on the
front line, drilling in phalanx formation with Clarisse calling
orders. Apollo’s and Hermes’s cabins were scattered in the
woods with bows ready. Many had taken up positions in the
trees. Even the dryads were armed with bows, and the
1071
satyrs trotted around with wooden cudgels and shields
made of rough tree bark.
Annabeth went to join her brethren from the Athena cabin,
who had set up a command tent and were directing
operations. A grey banner with an owl ﬂuttered outside the
tent. Our security chief, Argus, stood guard at the door.
Aphrodite’s children were running around, straightening
everybody’s armour and oﬀering to comb the tangles out of
our horsehair plumes. Even Dionysus’s kids had found
something to do. The god himself was still nowhere to be
seen, but his two blond twin sons were running around,
providing all the sweaty warriors with water bottles and
juice boxes.
It looked like a pretty good set-up, but Chiron muttered
next to me, ‘It isn’t enough.’
I thought about what I’d seen in the Labyrinth, all the
monsters in Antaeus’s stadium and the power of Kronos I’d
felt on Mount Tam. My heart sank. Chiron was right, but it
was all we could muster. For once I wished Dionysus were
here, but even if he had been, I didn’t know if he could have
done anything. When it came to war, gods were forbidden to
interfere directly. Apparently, the Titans didn’t believe in
restrictions like that.
Over at the edge of the clearing, Grover was talking to
Juniper. She held his hands while he told her our story.
Green tears formed in her eyes as he delivered the news
about Pan.
Tyson helped the Hephaestus kids prepare the defences.
He picked up boulders and piled them next to the catapults
for ﬁring.
‘Stay with me, Percy,’ Chiron said. ‘When the ﬁghting
begins, I want you to wait until we know what we’re dealing
with. You must go where we most need reinforcements.’
‘I saw Kronos,’ I said, still stunned by the fact. ‘I looked
straight into his eyes. It was Luke… but it wasn’t.’
1072
Chiron ran his ﬁngers along his bowstring. ‘He had golden
eyes, I would guess. And in his presence, time seemed to
turn to liquid.’
I nodded. ‘How could he take over a mortal body?’
‘I do not know, Percy. Gods have assumed the shapes of
mortals for ages, but to actually become one… to merge the
divine form with the mortal. I don’t know how this could be
done without Luke’s form turning to ashes.’
‘Kronos said his body had been prepared.’
‘I shudder to think what that means. But perhaps it will
limit Kronos’s power. For a time, at least, he is conﬁned to a
human form. It binds him together. Hopefully it also restricts
him.’
‘Chiron, if he leads this attack –’
‘I do not think so, my boy. I would sense if he were
drawing near. No doubt he planned to, but I believe you
inconvenienced him when you pulled his throne room down
on top of him.’ He looked at me reproachfully. ‘You and your
friend Nico, son of Hades.’
A lump formed in my throat. ‘I’m sorry, Chiron. I know I
should’ve told you. It’s just –’
Chiron raised his hand. ‘I understand why you did it, Percy.
You felt responsible. You sought to protect him. But, my boy,
if we are to survive this, we must trust each other. We
must…’
His voice wavered. The ground underneath us was
trembling.
Everyone in the clearing stopped what they were doing.
Clarisse barked a single order: ‘Lock shields!’
Then the Titan lord’s army exploded from the Labyrinth.
I’d been in ﬁghts before, but this was a full-scale battle. The
ﬁrst thing I saw were a dozen Laistrygonian giants erupting
from the ground, yelling so loudly my ears felt like bursting.
They carried shields made from ﬂattened cars, and clubs
that were tree trunks with rusty spikes bristling at the end.
1073
One of the giants bellowed at the Ares phalanx, smashed it
sideways with his club, and the entire cabin was thrown
aside, a dozen warriors tossed to the wind like rag dolls.
‘Fire!’ Beckendorf yelled. The catapults swung into action.
Two boulders hurtled towards the giants. One deﬂected oﬀ a
car shield with hardly a dent, but the other caught a
Laistrygonian in the chest, and the giant went down.
Apollo’s archers ﬁred a volley, dozens of arrows sticking in
the thick armour of the giants like porcupine quills. Several
found chinks in armour, and some of the giants vaporized at
the touch of celestial bronze.
But just when it looked like the Laistrygonians were about
to get overwhelmed, the next wave surged out of the maze:
thirty, maybe forty dracaenae in full battle armour, wielding
spears and nets. They dispersed in all directions. Some hit
the traps the Hephaestus cabin had laid. One got stuck on
the spikes and became an easy target for archers. Another
triggered a trip wire, and pots of Greek ﬁre exploded into
green ﬂames, engulﬁng several of the snake women. But
many more kept coming. Argus and Athena’s warriors
rushed forward to meet them. I saw Annabeth draw a sword
and engage one of them. Nearby, Tyson was riding a giant.
Somehow he’d managed to climb onto the giant’s back and
was hitting him on the head with a bronze shield – BONG!
BONG! BONG!
Chiron calmly aimed arrow after arrow, taking down a
monster with every shot. But more enemies just kept
climbing out of the maze. Finally a hellhound – not Mrs
O’Leary – leaped out of the tunnel and barrelled straight
towards the satyrs.
‘GO!’ Chiron yelled to me.
I drew Riptide and charged.
As I raced across the battleﬁeld, I saw horrible things. An
enemy half-blood was ﬁghting with a son of Dionysus, but it
wasn’t much of a contest. The enemy stabbed him in the
arm then clubbed him over the head with the butt of his
1074
sword, and Dionysus’s son went down. Another enemy
warrior shot ﬂaming arrows into the trees, sending our
archers and dryads into a panic.
A dozen dracaenae suddenly broke away from the main
ﬁght and slithered down the path that led towards camp,
like they knew where they were going. If they got out, they
could burn down the entire place, completely unopposed.
The only person anywhere near was Nico di Angelo. He
stabbed a telkhine, and his black Stygian blade absorbed
the monster’s essence, drinking its energy until there was
nothing left but dust.
‘Nico!’ I yelled.
He looked where I was pointing, saw the serpent women,
and immediately understood.
He took a deep breath and held out his black sword.
‘Serve me,’ he called.
The earth trembled. A ﬁssure opened in front of the
dracaenae and a dozen undead warriors crawled from the
earth – horrible corpses in military uniforms from all
diﬀerent 
time 
periods 
– 
US 
Revolutionaries, 
Roman
centurions, Napoleonic cavalry on skeletal horses. As one,
they drew their swords and engaged the dracaenae. Nico
crumpled to his knees, but I didn’t have time to make sure
he was okay.
I closed on the hellhound, which was now pushing the
satyrs back towards the woods. The beast snapped at one
satyr, who danced out of its way, but then it pounced on
another who was too slow. The satyr’s tree-bark shield
cracked as he fell.
‘Hey!’ I yelled.
The hellhound turned. It snarled at me and leaped. It
would’ve clawed me to pieces, but as I fell backwards my
ﬁngers closed around a clay jar – one of Beckendorf’s
containers of Greek ﬁre. I tossed it into the hellhound’s
maw, and the creature went up in ﬂames. I scrambled away,
breathing heavily.
1075
The satyr who’d been trampled wasn’t moving. I rushed
over to check on him, but then I heard Grover’s voice:
‘Percy!’
A forest ﬁre had started. Flames roared within three
metres of Juniper’s tree, and Juniper and Grover were going
nuts trying to save it. Grover played a rain song on his
pipes. Juniper desperately tried to beat out the ﬂames with
her green shawl, but it was only making things worse.
I ran towards them, jumping past duels, weaving between
the legs of giants. The nearest water was the creek, half a
kilometre away… but I had to do something. I concentrated.
There was a pull in my gut, a roar in my ears. Then a wall of
water came rushing through the trees. It doused the ﬁre,
Juniper, Grover and pretty much everything else.
Grover blew a spout of water. ‘Thanks, Percy!’
‘No problem!’ I ran back towards the ﬁght, and Grover and
Juniper followed. Grover had a cudgel in his hand and
Juniper held a stick – like an old-fashioned whipping switch.
She looked really angry, like she was going to tan
somebody’s backside.
Just when it seemed like the battle had balanced out again
– like we might stand a chance – an unearthly shriek echoed
out of the Labyrinth, a sound I had heard before.
Kampê shot into the sky, her bat wings fully extended.
She landed on the top of Zeus’s Fist and surveyed the
carnage. Her face was ﬁlled with evil glee. The mutant
animal heads growled at her waist. Snakes hissed and
swirled around her legs. In her right hand she held a
glittering ball of thread – Ariadne’s string – but she popped it
into a lion’s mouth at her waist and drew her curved swords.
The blades glowed green with poison. Kampê screeched in
triumph, and some of the campers screamed. Others tried
to run and got trampled by hellhounds or giants.
‘Di immortahs!’ Chiron yelled. He quickly aimed an arrow,
but Kampê seemed to sense his presence. She took ﬂight
1076
with amazing speed, and Chiron’s arrow whizzed harmlessly
past her head.
Tyson untangled himself from the giant whom he’d
pummelled into unconsciousness. He ran at our lines,
shouting, ‘Stand! Do not run from her! Fight!’
But then a hellhound leaped on him, and Tyson and the
hound went rolling away.
Kampê landed on the Athena command tent, smashing it
ﬂat. I ran after her and found Annabeth at my side, keeping
pace, her sword in her hand.
‘This might be it,’ she said.
‘Could be.’
‘Nice ﬁghting with you, Seaweed Brain.’
‘Ditto.’
Together we leaped into the monster’s path. Kampê
hissed and sliced at us. I dodged, trying to distract her,
while Annabeth went in for a strike, but the monster seemed
able to ﬁght with both hands independently. She blocked
Annabeth’s sword, and Annabeth had to jump back to avoid
the cloud of poison. Just being near the thing was like
standing in an acid fog. My eyes burned. My lungs couldn’t
get enough air. I knew we couldn’t stand our ground for
more than a few seconds.
‘Come on!’ I shouted. ‘We need help!’
But no help came. Everyone was either down, or ﬁghting
for their lives, or too scared to move forward. Three of
Chiron’s arrows sprouted from Kampê’s chest, but she just
roared louder.
‘Now!’ Annabeth said.
Together we charged, dodged the monster’s slashes, got
inside her guard and almost… almost managed to stab
Kampê in the chest, but a huge bear’s head lashed out from
the monster’s waist, and we had to stumble backwards to
avoid getting bitten.
Slam!
1077
My eyesight went black. The next thing I knew, Annabeth
and I were on the ground. The monster had its forelegs on
our chests, holding us down. Hundreds of snakes slithered
right above me, hissing like laughter. Kampê raised her
green-tinged swords, and I knew Annabeth and I were out of
options.
Then, behind me, something howled. A wall of darkness
slammed into Kampê, sending the monster sideways. And
Mrs O’Leary was standing over us, snarling and snapping at
Kampê.
‘Good girl!’ said a familiar voice. Daedalus was ﬁghting his
way out of the Labyrinth, slashing down enemies left and
right as he made his way towards us. Next to him was
someone else – a familiar giant, much taller than the
Laistrygonians, with a hundred rippling arms, each holding a
huge chunk of rock.
‘Briares!’ Tyson cried in wonder.
‘Hail, little brother!’ Briares bellowed. ‘Stand ﬁrm!’
And as Mrs O’Leary leaped out of the way, the Hundred-
handed One launched a volley of boulders at Kampê. The
rocks seemed to enlarge as they left Briares’s hands. There
were so many, it looked like half the earth had learned to ﬂy.
BOOOOOM!
Where Kampê had stood a moment before was a
mountain of boulders, almost as tall as Zeus’s Fist. The only
sign that the monster had ever existed were two green
sword points sticking through the cracks.
A cheer went up from the campers, but our enemies
weren’t done yet. One of the dracaenae yelled, ‘Ssssslay
them! Kill them all or Kronossss will ﬂay you alive!’
Apparently, that threat was more terrifying than we were.
The giants surged forward in a last desperate attempt. One
surprised Chiron with a glancing blow to the back legs, and
he stumbled and fell. Six giants cried in glee and rushed
forward.
‘No!’ I screamed, but I was too far away to help.
1078
Then it happened.
Grover opened his mouth, and the most horrible sound I’d
ever heard came out. It was like a brass trumpet magniﬁed
a thousand times – the sound of pure fear.
As one, the forces of Kronos dropped their weapons and
ran for their lives. The giants trampled the dracaenae, trying
to get into the Labyrinth ﬁrst. Telkhines and hellhounds and
enemy half-bloods scrambled after them. The tunnel
rumbled shut, and the battle was over. The clearing was
quiet except for ﬁres burning in the woods, and the cries of
the wounded.
I helped Annabeth to her feet. We ran to Chiron.
‘Are you all right?’ I asked.
He was lying on his side, trying in vain to get up. ‘How
embarrassing,’ he muttered. ‘I think I will be ﬁne.
Fortunately, we do not shoot centaurs with broken… Ow!…
broken legs.’
‘You need help,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’ll get a medic from
Apollo’s cabin.’
‘No,’ Chiron insisted. ‘There are more serious injuries to
attend to. Go! I am ﬁne. But, Grover… later we must talk
about how you did that.’
‘That was amazing,’ I agreed.
Grover blushed. ‘I don’t know where it came from.’
Juniper hugged him ﬁercely. ‘I do!’
Before she could say more, Tyson called, ‘Percy, come
quick! It is Nico!’
There was smoke curling oﬀ his black clothes. His ﬁngers
were clenched, and the grass all around his body had turned
yellow and died.
I rolled him over as gently as I could and put my hand
against his chest. His heart was beating faintly. ‘Get some
nectar!’ I yelled.
One of the Ares campers hobbled over and handed me a
canteen. I trickled some of the magic drink into Nico’s
1079
mouth. He coughed and spluttered, but his eyelids ﬂuttered
open.
‘Nico, what happened?’ I asked. ‘Can you talk?’
He nodded weakly. ‘Never tried to summon so many
before. I – I’ll be ﬁne.’
We helped him sit up and gave him some more nectar. He
blinked at all of us, like he was trying to remember who we
were, and then he focused on someone behind me.
‘Daedalus,’ he croaked.
‘Yes, my boy,’ the inventor said. ‘I made a very bad
mistake. I came to correct it.’
Daedalus had a few scratches that were bleeding golden
oil, but he looked better than most of us. Apparently his
automaton body healed itself quickly. Mrs O’Leary loomed
behind him, licking the wounds on her master’s head so
Daedalus’s hair stood up funny. Briares stood next to him,
surrounded by a group of awed campers and satyrs. He
looked kind of bashful, but he was signing autographs on
armour, shields and T-shirts.
‘I found the Hundred-handed One as I came through the
maze,’ Daedalus explained. ‘It seems he had the same idea,
to come and help, but he was lost. And so we fell in
together. We both came to make amends.’
‘Yay!’ Tyson jumped up and down. ‘Briares! I knew you
would come!’
‘I did not know,’ the Hundred-handed One said. ‘But you
reminded me who I am, Cyclops. You are the hero.’
Tyson blushed, but I patted him on the back. ‘I knew that a
long time ago,’ I said. ‘But, Daedalus… the Titan army is still
down there. Even without the string, they’ll be back. They’ll
ﬁnd a way sooner or later, with Kronos leading them.’
Daedalus sheathed his sword. ‘You are right. As long as
the Labyrinth is here, your enemies can use it. Which is why
the Labyrinth cannot continue.’
Annabeth stared at him. ‘But you said the Labyrinth is tied
to your life force! As long as you’re alive –’
1080
‘Yes, my young architect,’ Daedalus agreed. ‘When I die,
the Labyrinth will die as well. And so I have a present for
you.’
He slung a leather satchel oﬀ his back, unzipped it and
produced a sleek silver laptop computer – one of the ones
I’d seen in the workshop. On the lid was the blue symbol Δ.
‘My work is here,’ he said. ‘It’s all I managed to save from
the ﬁre. Notes on projects I never started. Some of my
favourite designs. I couldn’t develop these over the last few
millennia. I did not dare reveal my work to the mortal world.
But perhaps you will ﬁnd them interesting.’
He handed the computer to Annabeth, who stared at it
like it was solid gold. ‘You’re giving me this? But this is
priceless! This is worth… I don’t even know how much!’
‘Small compensation for the way I have acted,’ Daedalus
said. ‘You were right, Annabeth, about children of Athena.
We should be wise, and I was not. Someday you will be a
greater architect than I ever was. Take my ideas and
improve them. It is the least I can do before I pass on.’
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Pass on? But you can’t just kill yourself.
That’s wrong!’
He shook his head. ‘Not as wrong as hiding from my
crimes for two thousand years. Genius does not excuse evil,
Percy. My time has come. I must face my punishment.’
‘You won’t get a fair trial,’ Annabeth said. ‘The spirit of
Minos sits in judgement –’
‘I will take what comes,’ he said. ‘And trust in the justice
of the Underworld, such as it is. That is all we can do, isn’t
it?’
He looked straight at Nico, and Nico’s face darkened.
‘Yes,’ he said.
‘Will you take my soul for ransom, then?’ Daedalus asked.
‘You could use it to reclaim your sister.’
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘I will help you release your spirit. But
Bianca has passed. She must stay where she is.’
1081
Daedalus nodded. ‘Well said, son of Hades. You are
becoming wise,’ Then he turned towards me. ‘One last
favour, Percy Jackson. I cannot leave Mrs O’Leary alone. And
she has no desire to return to the Underworld. Will you care
for her?’
I looked at the massive black hound, who whimpered
pitifully, still licking Daedalus’s hair. I was thinking that my
mom’s apartment wouldn’t allow dogs, especially dogs
bigger than the apartment, but I said, ‘Yeah. Of course I
will.’
‘Then I am ready to see my son… and Perdix,’ he said. ‘I
must tell them how sorry I am.’
Annabeth had tears in her eyes.
Daedalus turned towards Nico, who drew his sword. At
ﬁrst I was afraid Nico would kill the old inventor, but he
simply said, ‘Your time is long since come. Be released and
rest.’
A smile of relief spread across Daedalus’s face. He froze
like a statue. His skin turned transparent, revealing the
bronze gears and machinery whirring inside his body. Then
the statue turned to grey ash and disintegrated.
Mrs O’Leary howled. I patted her head, trying to comfort
her as best I could. The earth rumbled – an earthquake that
could probably be felt in every major city across the country
– as the ancient Labyrinth collapsed. Somewhere, I hoped,
the remains of the Titans’ strike force had been buried.
I looked around at the carnage in the clearing, and the
weary faces of my friends.
‘Come on,’ I told them. ‘We have work to do.’
1082
19    The Council Gets Cloven
 
There were too many goodbyes.
That night was the ﬁrst time I actually saw camp burial
shrouds used on bodies, and it was not something I wanted
to see again.
Among the dead, Lee Fletcher from the Apollo cabin had
been downed by a giant’s club. He was wrapped in a golden
shroud without any decoration. The son of Dionysus who’d
gone down ﬁghting an enemy half-blood was wrapped in a
deep purple shroud, embroidered with grapevines. His name
was Castor. I was ashamed that I’d seen him around camp
for three years and never even bothered to learn his name.
He’d been seventeen years old. His twin brother, Pollux,
tried to say a few words, but he choked up and just took the
torch. He lit the funeral pyre in the middle of the
amphitheatre, and within seconds the row of shrouds was
engulfed in ﬁre, sending smoke and sparks up to the stars.
We spent the next day treating the wounded, which was
almost everybody. The satyrs and dryads worked to repair
the damage to the woods.
At noon, the Council of Cloven Elders held an emergency
meeting in their sacred grove. The three senior satyrs were
there, along with Chiron, who was in wheelchair form. His
broken horse leg was still mending, so he would be conﬁned
to the chair for a few months, until the leg was strong
enough to take his weight. The grove was ﬁlled with satyrs
and dryads and naiads up from the water – hundreds of
them, anxious to hear what would happen. Juniper,
Annabeth and I stood by Grover’s side.
1083
Silenus wanted to exile Grover immediately, but Chiron
persuaded him to at least hear evidence ﬁrst, so we told
everyone what had happened in the crystal cavern, and
what Pan had said. Then several eyewitnesses from the
battle described the weird sound Grover had made, which
drove the Titans’ army back underground.
‘It was panic,’ insisted Juniper. ‘Grover summoned the
power of the wild god.’
‘Panic?’ I asked.
‘Percy,’ Chiron explained, ‘during the ﬁrst war of the gods
and the Titans, Lord Pan let forth a horrible cry that scared
away the enemy armies. It is – it was his greatest power – a
massive wave of fear that helped the gods win the day. The
word panic is named after Pan, you see. And Grover used
that power, calling it forth from within himself.’
‘Preposterous!’ Silenus bellowed. ‘Sacrilege! Perhaps the
wild god favoured us with a blessing. Or perhaps Grover’s
music was so awful it scared the enemy away!’
‘That wasn’t it, sir,’ Grover said. He sounded a lot calmer
than I would have if I’d been insulted like that. ‘He let his
spirit pass into all of us. We must act. Each of us must work
to renew the wild, to protect what’s left of it. We must
spread the word. Pan is dead. There is no one but us.’
‘After two thousand years of searching, this is what you
would have us believe?’ Silenus cried. ‘Never! We must
continue the search. Exile the traitor!’
Some of the older satyrs muttered assent.
‘A vote!’ Silenus demanded. ‘Who would believe this
ridiculous young satyr, anyway?’
‘I would,’ said a familiar voice.
Everyone turned. Striding into the grove was Dionysus. He
wore a formal black suit, so I almost didn’t recognize him, a
deep purple tie and violet dress shirt, his curly dark hair
carefully combed. His eyes were bloodshot as usual, and his
pudgy face was ﬂushed, but he looked like he was suﬀering
from grief more than wine-withdrawal.
1084
The satyrs all stood respectfully and bowed as he
approached. Dionysus waved his hand, and a new chair
grew out of the ground next to Silenus’s – a throne made of
grapevines.
Dionysus sat down and crossed his legs. He snapped his
ﬁngers and a satyr hurried forward with a plate of cheese
and crackers and a Diet Coke.
The god of wine looked around at the assembled crowd.
‘Miss me?’
The satyrs fell over themselves nodding and bowing. ‘Oh,
yes, very much, sire!’
‘Well, I did not miss this place!’ Dionysus snapped. ‘I bear
bad news, my friends. Evil news. The minor gods are
changing sides. Morpheus has gone over to the enemy.
Hecate, Janus and Nemesis, as well. Zeus knows how many
more.’
Thunder rumbled in the distance.
‘Strike that,’ Dionysus said. ‘Even Zeus doesn’t know.
Now, I want to hear Grover’s story. Again, from the top.’
‘But, my lord,’ Silenus protested. ‘It’s just nonsense!’
Dionysus’s eyes ﬂared with purple ﬁre. ‘I have just learned
that my son Castor is dead, Silenus. I am not in a good
mood. You would do well to humour me.’
Silenus gulped, and waved at Grover to start again.
When Grover was done, Mr D nodded. ‘It sounds like just
the sort of thing Pan would do. Grover is right. The search is
tiresome. You must start thinking for yourselves.’ He turned
to a satyr. ‘Bring me some peeled grapes, right away!’
‘Yes, sire!’ The satyr scampered oﬀ.
‘We must exile the traitor!’ Silenus insisted.
‘I say no,’ Dionysus countered. ‘That is my vote.’
‘I vote no as well,’ Chiron put in.
Silenus set his jaw stubbornly. ‘All in favour of the exile?’
He and the other two old satyrs raised their hands.
‘Three to two,’ Silenus said.
1085
‘Ah, yes,’ Dionysus said. ‘But, unfortunately for you, a
god’s vote counts twice. And as I voted against, we are
tied.’
Silenus stood, indignant. ‘This is an outrage! The council
cannot stand at an impasse.’
‘Then let it be dissolved!’ Mr D said. ‘I don’t care.’
Silenus bowed stiﬄy, along with his two friends, and they
left the grove. About twenty satyrs went with them. The rest
stood around, murmuring uncomfortably.
‘Don’t worry,’ Grover told them. ‘We don’t need a council
to tell us what to do. We can ﬁgure it out ourselves.’
He told them again the words of Pan – how they must save
the wild a little at a time. He started dividing the satyrs into
groups – which ones would go to the national parks, which
ones would search out the last wild places, which ones
would defend the parks in big cities.
‘Well,’ Annabeth said to me, ‘Grover seems to be growing
up.’
Later that afternoon I found Tyson at the beach, talking to
Briares. Briares was building a sandcastle with about ﬁfty of
his hands. He wasn’t really paying attention to it, but his
hands had constructed a three-storey compound with
fortiﬁed walls, a moat and a drawbridge.
Tyson was drawing a map in the sand.
‘Go left at the reef,’ he told Briares. ‘Straight down when
you see the sunken ship. Then about one mile east, past the
mermaid graveyard, you will start to see ﬁres burning.’
‘You’re giving him directions to the forges?’ I asked.
Tyson nodded. ‘Briares wants to help. He will teach
Cyclopes ways we have forgotten, how to make better
weapons and armour.’
‘I want to see Cyclopes,’ Briares agreed. ‘I don’t want to
be lonely any more.’
‘I doubt you’ll be lonely down there,’ I said, a little
wistfully, because I’d never even been in Poseidon’s
1086
kingdom. ‘They’re going to keep you really busy.’
Briares’s face morphed to a happy expression. ‘Busy
sounds good! I only wish Tyson could go, too.’
Tyson blushed. ‘I need to stay here with my brother. You
will do ﬁne, Briares. Thank you.’
The Hundred-handed One shook my hand about one
hundred times. ‘We will meet again, Percy. I know it!’
Then he gave Tyson a big octopus hug and waded out into
the 
ocean. 
We 
watched 
until 
his 
enormous 
head
disappeared under the waves.
I clapped Tyson on the back. ‘You helped him a lot.’
‘I only talked to him.’
‘You believed in him. Without Briares, we never would’ve
taken down Kampê.’
Tyson grinned. ‘He throws good rocks!’
I laughed. ‘Yeah. He throws really good rocks. Come on,
big guy. Let’s have dinner.’
It felt good to have a regular dinner at camp. Tyson sat with
me at the Poseidon table. The sunset over Long Island
Sound was beautiful. Things weren’t back to normal by a
long shot, but when I went up to the brazier and scraped
part of my meal into the ﬂames as an oﬀering to Poseidon, I
felt like I really did have a lot to be grateful for. My friends
and I were alive. The camp was safe. Kronos had suﬀered a
setback, at least for a while.
The only thing that bothered me was Nico, hanging out in
the shadows at the edge of the pavilion. He’d been oﬀered a
place at the Hermes table, and even at the head table with
Chiron, but he had refused.
After 
dinner, 
the 
campers 
headed 
towards 
the
amphitheatre, where Apollo’s cabin promised an awesome
sing-along to pick up our spirits, but Nico turned and
disappeared into the woods. I decided I’d better follow him.
As I passed under the shadows of the trees, I realized how
dark it was getting. I’d never been scared in the forest
1087
before, though I knew there were plenty of monsters. Still, I
thought about yesterday’s battle, and I wondered if I’d ever
be able to walk in these woods again without remembering
the horror of so much ﬁghting.
I couldn’t see Nico, but after a few minutes of walking I
saw a glow up ahead. At ﬁrst I thought Nico had lit a torch.
As I got closer, I realized the glow was a ghost. The
shimmering form of Bianca di Angelo stood in the clearing,
smiling at her brother. She said something to him and
touched his face – or tried to. Then her image faded.
Nico turned and saw me, but he didn’t look mad.
‘Saying goodbye,’ he said hoarsely.
‘We missed you at dinner,’ I said. ‘You could’ve sat with
me.’
‘No.’
‘Nico, you can’t miss every meal. If you don’t want to stay
with Hermes, maybe they can make an exception and put
you in the Big House. They’ve got plenty of rooms.’
‘I’m not staying, Percy.’
‘But… you can’t just leave. It’s too dangerous out there for
a lone half-blood. You need to train.’
‘I train with the dead,’ he said ﬂatly. ‘This camp isn’t for
me. There’s a reason they didn’t put a cabin to Hades here,
Percy. He’s not welcome, any more than he is on Olympus. I
don’t belong. I have to go.’
I wanted to argue, but part of me knew he was right. I
didn’t like it, but Nico would have to ﬁnd his own dark way. I
remembered in Pan’s cave, how the wild god had addressed
each one of us individually… except Nico.
‘When will you go?’ I asked.
‘Right away. I’ve got tons of questions. Like who was my
mother? Who paid for Bianca and me to go to school? Who
was that lawyer guy who got us out of the Lotus Hotel? I
know nothing about my past. I need to ﬁnd out.’
‘Makes sense,’ I admitted. ‘But I hope we don’t have to be
enemies.’
1088
He lowered his gaze. ‘I’m sorry I was a brat. I should’ve
listened to you about Bianca.’
‘By the way…’ I ﬁshed something out of my pocket. ‘Tyson
found this while we were cleaning the cabin. Thought you
might want it.’ I held out a lead ﬁgurine of Hades – the little
Mythomagic statue Nico had abandoned when he ﬂed camp
last winter.
Nico hesitated. ‘I don’t play that game any more. It’s for
kids.’
‘It’s got four thousand attack power,’ I coaxed.
‘Five thousand,’ Nico corrected me. ‘But only if your
opponent attacks ﬁrst.’
I smiled. ‘Maybe it’s okay to still be a kid once in a while,’ I
tossed him the statuette.
Nico studied it in his palm for a few seconds, then slipped
it into his pocket. ‘Thanks.’
I put out my hand. He shook it reluctantly. His hand was as
cold as ice.
‘I’ve got a lot of things to investigate,’ he said. ‘Some of
them… Well, if I learn anything useful, I’ll let you know.’
I wasn’t sure what he meant, but I nodded. ‘Keep in touch,
Nico.’
He turned and trudged oﬀ into the woods. The shadows
seemed to bend towards him as he walked, like they were
reaching out for his attention.
A voice right behind me said, ‘There goes a very troubled
young man.’
I turned and found Dionysus standing there, still in his
black suit.
‘Walk with me,’ he said.
‘Where to?’ I asked suspiciously.
‘Just to the campﬁre,’ he said. ‘I was beginning to feel
better, so I thought I would talk with you a bit. You always
manage to annoy me.’
‘Uh, thanks.’
1089
We walked through the woods in silence. I noticed that
Dionysus was treading on air, his polished black shoes
hovering an inch oﬀ the ground. I guess he didn’t want to
get them dirty.
‘We have had many betrayals,’ he said. ‘Things are not
looking good for Olympus. Yet you and Annabeth saved this
camp. I’m not sure I should thank you for that.’
‘It was a group eﬀort.’
He shrugged. ‘Regardless, I suppose it was mildly
competent, what you two did. I thought you should know – it
wasn’t a total loss.’
We reached the amphitheatre, and Dionysus pointed
towards the campﬁre. Clarisse was sitting shoulder to
shoulder with a big Hispanic kid who was telling her a joke.
It was Chris Rodriguez, the half-blood who’d gone insane in
the Labyrinth.
I turned to Dionysus. ‘You cured him?’
‘Madness is my speciality. It was quite simple.’
‘But… you did something nice. Why?’
He raised an eyebrow. ‘I am nice! I simply ooze niceness,
Perry Johansson. Haven’t you noticed?’
‘Uh –’
‘Perhaps I felt grieved by my son’s death. Perhaps I
thought this Chris boy deserved a second chance. At any
rate, it seems to have improved Clarisse’s mood.’
‘Why are you telling me this?’
The wine god sighed. ‘Oh, Hades if I know. But remember,
boy, that a kind act can sometimes be as powerful as a
sword. As a mortal, I was never a great ﬁghter or athlete or
poet. I only made wine. The people in my village laughed at
me. They said I would never amount to anything. Look at
me now. Sometimes small things can become very large
indeed.’
He left me alone to think about that. And as I watched
Clarisse and Chris singing a stupid campﬁre song together,
1090
holding hands in the darkness, where they thought nobody
could see them, I had to smile.
1091
20    My Birthday Party Takes a Dark Turn
 
The rest of the summer seemed strange because it was so
normal. The daily activities continued: archery, rock
climbing, pegasus riding. We played capture the ﬂag
(though we all avoided Zeus’s Fist). We sang at the campﬁre
and raced chariots and played practical jokes on the other
cabins. I spent a lot of time with Tyson, playing with Mrs
O’Leary, but she would still howl at night when she got
lonely for her old master. Annabeth and I pretty much
skirted around each other. I was glad to be with her, but it
also kind of hurt, and it hurt when I wasn’t with her, too.
I wanted to talk to her about Kronos, but I couldn’t do that
any more without bringing up Luke. And that was one
subject I couldn’t raise. She would shut me out every time I
tried.
July passed, with ﬁreworks on the beach at the Fourth of
July. August turned so hot the strawberries started baking in
the ﬁelds. Finally, the last day of camp arrived. The standard
form letter appeared on my bed after breakfast, warning me
that the cleaning harpies would devour me if I stayed past
noon.
At ten o’clock I stood on the top of Half-Blood Hill, waiting
for the camp van that would take me into the city. I’d made
arrangements to leave Mrs O’Leary at camp, where Chiron
promised she’d be looked after. Tyson and I would take turns
visiting her during the year.
I hoped Annabeth would be riding into Manhattan with
me, but she only came to see me oﬀ. She said she’d
arranged to stay at camp a little longer. She would tend to
1092
Chiron until his leg was fully recovered, and keep studying
Daedalus’s laptop, which had engrossed her for the last two
months. Then she would head back to her father’s place in
San Francisco.
‘There’s a private school out there that I’ll be going to,’
she said. ‘I’ll probably hate it, but…’ She shrugged.
‘Yeah, well, call me, okay?’
‘Sure,’ she said halfheartedly. ‘I’ll keep my eyes open
for…’
There it was again. Luke. She couldn’t even say his name
without opening up a huge box of hurt and worry and anger.
‘Annabeth,’ I said. ‘What was the rest of the prophecy?’
She ﬁxed her eyes on the woods in the distance, but she
didn’t say anything.
‘You shall delve in the darkness of the endless maze’, I
remembered. ‘The dead, the traitor and the lost one raise.
We raised a lot of the dead. We saved Ethan Nakamura, who
turned out to be a traitor. We raised the spirit of Pan, the
lost one.’
Annabeth shook her head like she wanted me to stop.
‘You shall rise or fall by the ghost king’s hand,’ I pressed
on. ‘That wasn’t Minos like I’d thought. It was Nico. By
choosing to be on our side, he saved us. And the child of
Athena’s ﬁnal stand – that was Daedalus.’
‘Percy –’
‘Destroy with a hero’s ﬁnal breath. That makes sense now.
Daedalus died to destroy the Labyrinth. But what was the
last –’
‘And lose a love to worse than death.’ Annabeth had tears
in her eyes. ‘That was the last line, Percy. Are you happy
now?’
The sun seemed colder than it had a moment ago. ‘Oh,’ I
said. ‘So Luke –’
‘Percy, I didn’t know who the prophecy was talking about.
I – I didn’t know if…’ She faltered helplessly. ‘Luke and I – for
1093
years, he was the only one who really cared about me. I
thought…’
Before she could continue, a sparkle of light appeared
next to us, like someone had opened a gold curtain in the
air.
‘You have nothing to apologize for, my dear.’ Standing on
the hill was a tall woman in a white dress, her dark hair
braided over her shoulder.
‘Hera,’ Annabeth said.
The goddess smiled. ‘You found the answers, as I knew
you would. Your quest was a success.’
‘A success?’ Annabeth said. ‘Luke is gone. Daedalus is
dead. Pan is dead. How is that –’
‘Our family is safe,’ Hera insisted. ‘Those others are better
gone, my dear. I am proud of you.’
I balled my ﬁsts. I couldn’t believe she was saying this.
‘You’re the one who paid Geryon to let us through the ranch,
weren’t you?’
Hera shrugged. Her dress shimmered in rainbow colours. ‘I
wanted to speed you on your way.’
‘But you didn’t care about Nico. You were happy to see
him turned over to the Titans.’
‘Oh, please.’ Hera waved her hand dismissively. ‘The son
of Hades said it himself. No one wants him around. He does
not belong.’
‘Hephaestus was right,’ I growled. ‘You only care about
your perfect family, not real people.’
Her eyes turned dangerously bright. ‘Watch yourself, son
of Poseidon. I guided you more than you know in the maze. I
was at your side when you faced Geryon. I let your arrow ﬂy
straight. I sent you to Calypso’s island. I opened the way to
the Titans’ mountain. Annabeth, my dear, surely you see
how I’ve helped. I would welcome a sacriﬁce for my eﬀorts.’
Annabeth stood still as a statue. She could’ve said thank
you. She could’ve promised to throw some barbecue on the
brazier for Hera and forget the whole thing. But she
1094
clenched her jaw stubbornly. She looked just the way she
had when she’d faced the Sphinx – like she wasn’t going to
accept an easy answer, even if it got her in serious trouble. I
realized that was one of the things I liked best about
Annabeth.
‘Percy is right.’ She turned her back on the goddess.
‘You’re the one who doesn’t belong, Queen Hera. So next
time, thanks… but no thanks.’
Hera’s sneer was worse than an empousa’s. Her form
began to glow. ‘You will regret this insult, Annabeth. You will
regret this very much.’
I averted my eyes as the goddess turned into her true
divine form and disappeared in a blaze of light.
The hilltop was peaceful again. Over at the pine tree,
Peleus the dragon dozed under the Golden Fleece as if
nothing had happened.
‘I’m sorry,’ Annabeth told me. ‘I – I should get back. I’ll
keep in touch.’
‘Listen, Annabeth –’ I thought about Mount St Helens,
Calypso’s island, Luke and Rachel Elizabeth Dare, and how
suddenly everything had got so complicated. I wanted to tell
Annabeth that I didn’t really want to be so distant from her.
Then Argus honked his horn down at the road, and I lost
my chance.
‘You’d better get going,’ Annabeth said. ‘Take care,
Seaweed Brain.’
She jogged down the hill. I watched her until she reached
the cabins. She didn’t look back once.
Two days later it was my birthday. I never advertised the
date, because it always fell right after camp, so none of my
camp friends could usually come, and I didn’t have that
many mortal friends. Besides, getting older didn’t seem like
anything to celebrate since I’d had the big prophecy about
me destroying or saving the world when I turned sixteen.
Now I was turning ﬁfteen. I was running out of time.
1095
My mom threw me a small party at our apartment. Paul
Bloﬁs came over, but that was okay because Chiron had
manipulated the Mist to convince everyone at Goode High
School that I had nothing to do with the band-room
explosion. Now Paul and the other witnesses were convinced
that Kelli had been a crazy, ﬁrebomb-throwing cheerleader,
while I had simply been an innocent bystander who’d
panicked and ran from the scene. I would still be allowed to
start as a freshman at Goode next month. If I wanted to
keep my record of getting kicked out of school every year,
I’d have to try harder.
Tyson came to my party, too, and my mother baked two
extra blue cakes just for him. While Tyson helped my mom
blow up party balloons, Paul Bloﬁs asked me to help him in
the kitchen.
As we were pouring punch, he said, ‘I hear your mom
signed you up for driver’s ed this fall.’
‘Yeah. It’s cool. I can’t wait.’
Seriously, I’d been excited about getting my licence
forever, but I guess my heart wasn’t in it any more, and Paul
could tell. In a weird way he reminded me of Chiron
sometimes, how he could look at you and actually see your
thoughts. I guess it was that teacher aura.
‘You’ve had a rough summer,’ he said. ‘I’m guessing you
lost someone important. And… girl trouble?’
I stared at him. ‘How do you know that? Did my mom –’
He held up his hands. ‘Your mom hasn’t said a thing. And I
won’t pry. I just know there’s something unusual about you,
Percy. You’ve got a lot going on that I can’t ﬁgure out. But I
was also ﬁfteen once, and I’m just guessing from your
expression… Well, you’ve had a rough time.’
I nodded. I’d promised my mom I would tell Paul the truth
about me, but now didn’t seem the time. Not yet. ‘I lost a
couple of friends at this camp I go to,’ I said. ‘I mean, not
close friends, but still –’
‘I’m sorry.’
1096
‘Yeah. And, uh, I guess the girl stuﬀ…’
‘Here.’ Paul handed me some punch. ‘To your ﬁfteenth
birthday. And to a better year to come.’
We tapped our paper cups together and drank.
‘Percy, I kind of feel bad, giving you one more thing to
think about,’ Paul said. ‘But I wanted to ask you something.’
‘Yeah?’
‘Girl stuﬀ.’
I frowned. ‘What do you mean?’
‘Your mom,’ Paul said. ‘I’m thinking about proposing to
her.’
I almost dropped my cup. ‘You mean… marrying her? You
and her?’
‘Well, that was the general idea. Would that be okay with
you?’
‘You’re asking my permission?’
Paul scratched his beard. ‘I don’t know if it’s permission,
so much, but she’s your mother. And I know you’re going
through a lot. I wouldn’t feel right if I didn’t talk to you about
it ﬁrst, man to man.’
‘Man to man,’ I repeated. It sounded strange, saying that.
I thought about Paul and my mom, how she smiled and
laughed more whenever he was around, and how Paul had
gone out of his way to get me into high school. I found
myself saying, ‘I think that’s a great idea, Paul. Go for it.’
He smiled really wide then. ‘Cheers, Percy. Let’s join the
party.’
I was just getting ready to blow out the candles when the
doorbell rang.
My mom frowned. ‘Who could that could be?’
It was weird, because our new building had a doorman,
but he hadn’t called up or anything. My mom opened the
door and gasped.
It was my dad. He was wearing Bermuda shorts and a
Hawaiian shirt and Birkenstocks, like he usually does. His
1097
black beard was neatly trimmed and his sea-green eyes
twinkled. He wore a battered cap decorated with ﬁshing
lures. It said, Neptune’s Lucky Fishing Hat.
‘Pos–’ My mother stopped herself. She was blushing right
to the roots of her hair. ‘Um, hello.’
‘Hello, Sally,’ Poseidon said. ‘You look as beautiful as ever.
May I come in?’
My mother made a squeaking sound that might’ve been
either ‘yes’ or ‘help’. Poseidon took it as a yes and came in.
Paul was looking back and forth between us, trying to read
our expressions. Finally he stepped forward. ‘Hi, I’m Paul
Bloﬁs.’
Poseidon raised his eyebrows as they shook hands.
‘Blowﬁsh, did you say?’
‘Ah, no. Bloﬁs, actually.’
‘Oh, I see,’ Poseidon said. ‘A shame. I quite like blowﬁsh. I
am Poseidon.’
‘Poseidon? That’s an interesting name.’
‘Yes, I like it. I’ve gone by other names, but I do prefer
Poseidon.’
‘Like the god of the sea.’
‘Very much like that, yes.’
‘Well!’ my mom interrupted. ‘Um, we’re so glad you could
drop by. Paul, this is Percy’s father.’
‘Ah.’ Paul nodded, though he didn’t look very pleased. ‘I
see.’
Poseidon smiled at me. ‘There you are, my boy. And Tyson,
hello, son!’
‘Daddy!’ Tyson bounded across the room and gave
Poseidon a big hug, which almost knocked oﬀ his ﬁshing hat.
Paul’s jaw dropped. He stared at my mom. ‘Tyson is…’
‘Not mine,’ she promised. ‘It’s a long story.’
‘I couldn’t miss Percy’s ﬁfteenth birthday,’ Poseidon said.
‘Why, if this were Sparta, Percy would be a man today!’
‘That’s true,’ Paul said. ‘I used to teach ancient history.’
1098
Poseidon’s eyes twinkled. ‘That’s me. Ancient history.
Sally, Paul, Tyson… would you mind if I borrowed Percy for
just a moment?’
He put his arm around me and steered me into the
kitchen.
Once we were alone, his smile faded.
‘Are you all right, my boy?’
‘Yeah. I’m ﬁne. I guess.’
‘I heard stories,’ Poseidon said. ‘But I wanted to hear it
directly from you. Tell me everything.’
So I did. It was kind of disconcerting, because Poseidon
listened so intently. His eyes never left my face. His
expression didn’t change the whole time I talked. When I
was done, he nodded slowly.
‘So Kronos is indeed back. It will not be long before full
war is upon us.’
‘What about Luke?’ I asked. ‘Is he really gone?’
‘I don’t know, Percy. It is most disturbing.’
‘But his body is mortal. Couldn’t you just destroy him?’
Poseidon looked troubled. ‘Mortal, perhaps. But there is
something diﬀerent about Luke, my boy. I don’t know how
he was prepared to host the Titan’s soul, but he will not be
easily killed. And yet, I fear he must be killed if we are to
send Kronos back to the pit. I will have to think on this.
Unfortunately, I have other problems of my own.’
I remembered what Tyson had told me at the beginning of
the summer. ‘The old sea gods?’
‘Indeed. The battle came ﬁrst to me, Percy. In fact, I
cannot stay long. Even now the ocean is at war with itself. It
is all I can do to keep hurricanes and typhoons from
destroying your surface world, the ﬁghting is so intense.’
‘Let me come down there,’ I said. ‘Let me help.’
Poseidon’s eyes crinkled as he smiled. ‘Not yet, my boy. I
sense you will be needed here. Which reminds me…’ He
1099
brought out a sand dollar and pressed it into my hand. ‘Your
birthday present. Spend it wisely.’
‘Uh, spend a sand dollar?’
‘Oh, yes. In my day, you could buy quite a lot with a sand
dollar. I think you will ﬁnd it still buys a lot, if used in the
right situation.’
‘What situation?’
‘When the time comes,’ Poseidon said, ‘I think you’ll
know.’
I closed my hand around the sand dollar, but something
was really bothering me.
‘Dad,’ I said. ‘When I was in the maze, I met Antaeus. He
said… well, he said he was your favourite son. He decorated
his arena with skulls and –’
‘He dedicated them to me,’ Poseidon supplied. ‘And you
are wondering how someone could do something so horrible
in my name.’
I nodded uncomfortably.
Poseidon put his weathered hand on my shoulder. ‘Percy,
lesser beings do many horrible things in the name of the
gods. That does not mean we gods approve. The way our
sons and daughters act in our names… well, it usually says
more about them than it does about us. And you, Percy, are
my favourite son.’
He smiled, and at that moment, just being in the kitchen
with him was the best birthday present I ever got. Then my
mom called from the living room, ‘Percy? The candles are
melting!’
‘You’d better go,’ Poseidon said. ‘But, Percy, one last thing
you should know. That incident at Mount St Helens…’
For a second I thought he was talking about Annabeth
kissing me, and I blushed, but then I realized he was talking
about something a lot bigger.
‘The eruptions are continuing,’ he said. ‘Typhon is stirring.
It is very likely that soon, in a few months, perhaps a year at
best, he will escape his bonds.’
1100
‘I’m sorry,’ I said. ‘I didn’t mean –’
Poseidon raised his hand. ‘It is not your fault, Percy. It
would’ve happened sooner or later, with Kronos awakening
the ancient monsters. But be aware, if Typhon stirs… it will
be unlike anything you have faced before. The ﬁrst time he
appeared, all the forces of Olympus were barely enough to
battle him. And when he stirs again, he will come here, to
New York. He will make straight for Olympus.’
That was just the kind of wonderful news I wanted to get
on my birthday, but Poseidon patted me on the back like
everything was ﬁne. ‘I should go. Enjoy your cake.’
And just like that he turned to mist and was swept out of
the window on a warm ocean breeze.
It took a little work to convince Paul that Poseidon had left
via the ﬁre escape, but since people can’t vanish into thin
air, he had no choice but to believe it.
We ate blue cake and ice cream until we couldn’t eat any
more. Then we played a bunch of cheesy party games like
charades and Monopoly. Tyson didn’t get charades. He kept
shouting out the answer he was trying to mime, but it
turned out he was really good at Monopoly. He knocked me
out of the game in the ﬁrst ﬁve rounds and started
bankrupting my mom and Paul. I left them playing and went
into my bedroom.
I set an uneaten slice of blue cake on my dresser. Then I
took oﬀ my Camp Half-Blood necklace and laid it on the
windowsill. There were three beads now, representing my
three summers at camp – a trident, the Golden Fleece and
the latest: an intricate maze, symbolizing the Battle of the
Labyrinth, as the campers had started to call it. I wondered
what next year’s bead would be, if I was still around to get
it. If the camp survived until next summer.
I looked at the telephone by my bedside. I thought about
calling Rachel Elizabeth Dare. My mom had asked me if
there was anyone else I wanted to have over tonight, and I’d
1101
thought about Rachel. But I didn’t call. I don’t know why. The
idea made me almost as nervous as a door into the
Labyrinth.
I patted my pockets and emptied out my stuﬀ – Riptide, a
Kleenex, my apartment key. Then I patted my shirt pocket
and felt a small lump. I hadn’t even realized it, but I was
wearing the white cotton shirt Calypso had given me on
Ogygia. I brought out a little piece of cloth, unwrapped it,
and found the clipping of moonlace. It was a tiny sprig,
shrivelled up after two months, but I could still smell the
faint scent of the enchanted garden. It made me sad.
I remembered Calypso’s last request of me: Plant a
garden in Manhattan for me, will you? I opened the window
and stepped onto the ﬁre escape.
My mom kept a planter box out there. In the spring she
usually ﬁlled it with ﬂowers, but now it was all earth, waiting
for something new. It was a clear night. The moon was full
over Eighty-second Street. I planted the dried sprig of
moonlace carefully in the dirt and sprinkled a little nectar on
it from my camp canteen.
Nothing happened at ﬁrst.
Then, as I watched, a tiny silver plant sprang out of the
soil – a baby moonlace, glowing in the warm summer night.
‘Nice plant,’ a voice said.
I jumped. Nico di Angelo was standing on the ﬁre escape
right next to me. He’d just appeared there.
‘Sorry,’ he said. ‘Didn’t mean to startle you.’
‘That’s – that’s okay. I mean… what are you doing here?’
He’d grown about an inch taller over the last couple of
months. His hair was a shaggy black mess. He wore a black
T-shirt, black jeans and a new silver ring shaped like a skull.
His Stygian iron sword hung at his side.
‘I’ve done some exploring,’ he said. ‘Thought you’d like to
know that Daedalus got his punishment.’
‘You saw him?’
1102
Nico nodded. ‘Minos wanted to boil him in cheese fondue
for eternity, but my father had other ideas. Daedalus will be
building overpasses and exit ramps in Asphodel for all time.
It’ll help ease the traﬃc congestion. Truthfully, I think the
old guy is pretty happy with that. He’s still building. Still
creating. And he gets to see his son and Perdix on the
weekends.’
‘That’s good.’
Nico tapped at his silver ring. ‘But that’s not the real
reason I’ve come. I’ve found out some things. I want to
make you an oﬀer.’
‘What?’
‘The way to beat Luke,’ he said. ‘If I’m right, it’s the only
way you’ll stand a chance.’
I took a deep breath. ‘Okay. I’m listening.’
Nico glanced inside my room. His eyebrows furrowed. ‘Is
that… is that blue birthday cake?’
He sounded hungry, maybe a little wistful. I wondered if
the poor kid had ever had a birthday party, or if he’d ever
even been invited to one.
‘Come inside for cake and ice cream,’ I said. ‘It sounds like
we’ve got a lot to talk about.’
1103
1104
RICK RIORDAN
 
PUFFIN
1105
Contents
 
1 • Go Cruising With Explosives
 
2 • I Meet Some Fishy Relatives
 
3 • I Get a Sneak Peek At My Death
 
4 • We Burn a Metal Shroud
 
5 • I Drive My Dog Into a Tree
 
6 • My Cookies Get Scorched
 
7 • My Maths Teacher Gives Me a Lift
 
8 • I Take The Worst Bath Ever
 
9 • Two Snakes Save My Life
 
10 • I Buy Some New Friends
 
11 • We Break a Bridge
 
12 • Rachel Makes a Bad Deal
 
13 • A Titan Brings Me a Present
 
14 • Pigs Fly
 
15 • Chiron Throws a Party
 
16 • We Get Help From a Thief
 
17 • I Sit On The Hot Seat
 
18 • My Parents Go Commando
1106
 
19 • We Trash The Eternal City
 
20 • We Win Fabulous Prizes
 
21 • Blackjack Gets Jacked
 
22 • I Am Dumped
 
23 • We Say Goodbye, Sort of
 
1107
To Mrs Pabst, my eighth-grade English teacher,
who started me on the road to Camp Half-Blood
1108
1    Go Cruising With Explosives
 
The end of the world started when a pegasus landed on the
hood of my car.
Up until then, I was having a great afternoon. Technically I
wasn’t supposed to be driving because I wouldn’t turn
sixteen for another week, but my mom and my stepdad,
Paul, took my friend Rachel and me to this private stretch of
beach on the South Shore and Paul let us borrow his Prius
for a short spin.
Now I know you’re thinking, Wow, that was really
irresponsible of him, blah, blah, blah, but Paul knows me
pretty well. He’s seen me slice up demons and leap out of
exploding school buildings, so he probably ﬁgured taking a
car a few hundred metres wasn’t exactly the most
dangerous thing I’d ever done.
Anyway, Rachel and I were driving along. It was a hot
August day. Rachel’s red hair was pulled back in a ponytail
and she wore a white blouse over her swimsuit. I’d never
seen her in anything but ratty T-shirts and paint-splattered
jeans before, and she looked like a million golden drachmas.
‘Oh, pull up right there!’ she told me.
We parked on a ridge overlooking the Atlantic. The sea is
always one of my favourite places, but today it was
especially nice – glittery green and smooth as glass, as
though my dad was keeping it calm just for us.
My dad, by the way, is Poseidon. He can do stuﬀ like that.
‘So.’ Rachel smiled at me. ‘About that invitation.’
‘Oh … right.’ I tried to sound excited. I mean, she’d asked
me to her family’s vacation house on St Thomas for three
1109
days. I didn’t get a lot of oﬀers like that. My family’s idea of
a fancy vacation was a weekend in a rundown cabin on Long
Island with some movie rentals and a couple of frozen
pizzas, and here Rachel’s folks were willing to let me tag
along to the Caribbean.
Besides, I seriously needed a vacation. This summer had
been the hardest of my life. The idea of taking a break even
for a few days was really tempting.
Still, something big was supposed to go down any day
now. I was ‘on call’ for a mission. Even worse, next week
was my birthday. There was this prophecy that said when I
turned sixteen, bad things would happen.
‘Percy,’ Rachel said, ‘I know the timing is bad. But it’s
always bad for you, right?’
She had a point.
‘I really want to go,’ I promised. ‘It’s just –’
‘The war.’
I nodded. I didn’t like talking about it, but Rachel knew.
Unlike most mortals, she could see through the Mist – the
magic veil that distorts human vision. She’d seen monsters.
She’d met some of the other demigods who were ﬁghting
the Titans and their allies. She’d even been there last
summer when the chopped-up Lord Kronos rose out of his
coﬃn in a terrible new form, and she’d earned my
permanent respect by nailing him in the eye with a blue
plastic hairbrush.
She put her hand on my arm. ‘Just think about it, okay?
We don’t leave for a couple of days. My dad …’ Her voice
faltered.
‘Is he giving you a hard time?’ I asked.
Rachel shook her head in disgust. ‘He’s trying to be nice
to me, which is almost worse. He wants me to go to Clarion
Ladies’ Academy in the autumn.’
‘The school where your mom went?’
‘It’s a stupid ﬁnishing school for society girls, all the way
in New Hampshire. Can you see me in ﬁnishing school?’
1110
I admitted the idea sounded pretty dumb. Rachel was into
urban art projects and feeding the homeless and going to
protest rallies to ‘Save the Endangered Yellow-Bellied Sap
Sucker’ and stuﬀ like that. I’d never even seen her wear a
dress. It was hard to imagine her learning to be a socialite.
She sighed. ‘He thinks if he does a bunch of nice stuﬀ for
me, I’ll feel guilty and give in.’
‘Which is why he agreed to let me come with you guys on
vacation?’
‘Yes  … but, Percy, you’d be doing me a huge favour. It
would be so much better if you were with us. Besides,
there’s something I want to talk –’ She stopped abruptly.
‘Something you want to talk about?’ I asked. ‘You mean …
so serious we’d have to go to St Thomas to talk about it?’
She pursed her lips. ‘Look, just forget it for now. Let’s
pretend we’re a couple of normal people. We’re out for a
drive, and we’re watching the ocean, and it’s nice to be
together.’
I could tell something was bothering her, but she put on a
brave smile. The sunlight made her hair look like ﬁre.
We’d spent a lot of time together this summer. I hadn’t
exactly planned it that way, but the more serious things got
at camp, the more I found myself needing to call up Rachel
and get away, just for some breathing room. I needed to
remind myself the mortal world was still out here, away
from all the monsters using me as their personal punching
bag.
‘Okay,’ I said. ‘Just a normal afternoon and two normal
people.’
She nodded. ‘And so … hypothetically, if these two people
liked each other, what would it take to get the stupid guy to
kiss the girl, huh?’
‘Oh …’ I felt like one of Apollo’s sacred cows – slow, dumb
and bright red. ‘Um …’
I can’t pretend I hadn’t thought about Rachel. She was so
much easier to be around than … well, than some other girls
1111
I knew. I didn’t have to work hard, or watch what I said, or
wrack my brain trying to ﬁgure out what she was thinking.
Rachel didn’t hide much. She let you know how she felt.
I’m not sure what I would’ve done next, but I was so
distracted I didn’t notice the huge black form swooping
down from the sky until four hooves landed on the hood of
the Prius with a WUMP-WUMP-CRUNCH!
Hey, boss, a voice said in my head. Nice car!
Blackjack the pegasus was an old friend of mine, so I tried
not to get too annoyed by the craters he’d just put in the
hood, but I didn’t think Paul Bloﬁs would be real stoked.
‘Blackjack,’ I sighed. ‘What are you –’
Then I saw who was riding on his back, and I knew my day
was about to get a lot more complicated.
‘’Sup, Percy.’
Charles Beckendorf, senior counsellor for the Hephaestus
cabin, would make most monsters cry for their mommies.
He was huge, with ripped muscles from working in the
forges every summer. He was two years older than me and
one of the camp’s best armour-smiths. He made some
seriously ingenious mechanical stuﬀ. A month before, he’d
rigged a Greek ﬁre bomb in the bathroom of a tour bus that
was carrying a bunch of monsters across country. The
explosion took out a whole legion of Kronos’s evil meanies
as soon as the ﬁrst harpy went ﬂush.
Beckendorf was dressed for combat. He wore a bronze
breastplate and war helm with black camo pants and a
sword strapped to his side. His explosives bag was slung
over his shoulder.
‘Time?’ I asked.
He nodded grimly.
A lump formed in my throat. I’d known this was coming.
We’d been planning it for weeks, but I’d half hoped it would
never happen.
Rachel looked up at Beckendorf. ‘Hi.’
1112
‘Oh, hey. I’m Beckendorf. You must be Rachel. Percy’s told
me … uh, I mean he mentioned you.’
Rachel raised an eyebrow. ‘Really? Good.’ She glanced at
Blackjack, who was clopping his hooves against the hood of
the Prius. ‘So I guess you guys have to go save the world
now.’
‘Pretty much,’ Beckendorf agreed.
I looked at Rachel helplessly. ‘Would you tell my mom –’
‘I’ll tell her. I’m sure she’s used to it. And I’ll explain to
Paul about the hood.’
I nodded my thanks. I ﬁgured this might be the last time
Paul loaned me his car.
‘Good luck.’ Rachel kissed me before I could even react.
‘Now get going, half-blood. Go kill some monsters for me.’
My last view of her was sitting in the shotgun seat of the
Prius, her arms crossed, watching as Blackjack circled higher
and higher, carrying Beckendorf and me into the sky. I
wondered what Rachel wanted to talk to me about, and
whether I’d live long enough to ﬁnd out.
‘So,’ Beckendorf said. ‘I’m guessing you don’t want me to
mention that little scene to Annabeth.’
‘Oh, gods,’ I muttered. ‘Don’t even think about it.’
Beckendorf chuckled, and together we soared out over the
Atlantic.
It was almost dark by the time we spotted our target. The
Princess Andromeda glowed on the horizon – a huge cruise
ship lit up yellow and white. From a distance, you’d think it
was just a party ship, not the headquarters for the Titan
lord. Then, as you got closer, you might notice the giant
ﬁgurehead – a dark-haired maiden in a Greek chiton,
wrapped in chains with a look of horror on her face, as if she
could smell the stench of all the monsters she was being
forced to carry.
Seeing the ship again twisted my gut into knots. I’d
almost died twice on the Princess Andromeda. Now it was
1113
heading straight for New York.
‘You know what to do?’ Beckendorf yelled over the wind.
I nodded. We’d done dry runs at the dockyards in New
Jersey, using abandoned ships as our targets. I knew how
little time we would have. But I also knew this was our best
chance to end Kronos’s invasion before it ever started.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, ‘set us down on the lowest stern deck.’
Gotcha, boss, he said. Man, I hate seeing that boat.
Three years ago, Blackjack had been enslaved on the
Princess Andromeda until he’d escaped with a little help
from my friends and me. I ﬁgured he’d rather have his mane
braided like My Little Pony than be back here again.
‘Don’t wait for us,’ I told him.
But, boss –
‘Trust me,’ I said. ‘We’ll get out by ourselves.’
Blackjack folded his wings and plummeted towards the
boat like a black comet. The wind whistled in my ears. I saw
monsters patrolling the upper decks of the ship – dracaenae
snake-women, hellhounds, giants, and the humanoid sea-
lion demons known as telkhines – but we zipped by so fast
none of them raised the alarm. We shot down the stern of
the boat and Blackjack spread his wings, lightly coming to a
landing on the lowest deck. I climbed oﬀ, feeling queasy.
Good luck, boss, Blackjack said. Don’t let ’em turn you
into horsemeat!
With that, my old friend ﬂew oﬀ into the night. I took my
pen out of my pocket, uncapped it, and Riptide sprang to
full size – one metre of deadly celestial bronze glowing in
the dusk.
Beckendorf pulled a piece of paper out of his pocket. I
thought it was a map or something. Then I realized it was a
photograph. He stared at it in the dim light – the smiling
face of Silena Beauregard, daughter of Aphrodite. They’d
started going out last summer, after years of the rest of us
saying, ‘Duh, you guys like each other!’ Even with all the
1114
dangerous missions, Beckendorf had been happier this
summer than I’d ever seen him.
‘We’ll make it back to camp,’ I promised.
For a second I saw worry in his eyes. Then he put on his
old conﬁdent smile.
‘You bet,’ he said. ‘Let’s go blow Kronos back into a million
pieces.’
Beckendorf led the way. We followed a narrow corridor to
the service stairwell, just like we’d practised, but we froze
when we heard noises above us.
‘I don’t care what your nose says!’ snarled a half-human,
half-dog voice – a telkhine. ‘The last time you smelled half-
blood, it turned out to be a meatloaf sandwich!’
‘Meatloaf sandwiches are good!’ a second voice snarled.
‘But this is half-blood scent, I swear. They are on board!’
‘Bah, your brain isn’t on board!’
They continued to argue, and Beckendorf pointed
downstairs. We descended as quietly as we could. Two ﬂoors
down, the voices of the telkhines started to fade.
Finally we came to a metal hatch. Beckendorf mouthed
the words, Engine room.
It was locked, but Beckendorf pulled some chain cutters
out of his bag and split the bolt like it was made of butter.
Inside, a row of yellow turbines the size of grain silos
churned and hummed. Pressure gauges and computer
terminals lined the opposite wall. A telkhine was hunched
over a console, but he was so involved with his work he
didn’t notice us. He was about a metre and a half tall, with
slick black sea-lion fur and stubby little feet. He had the
head of a Dobermann, but his clawed hands were almost
human. He growled and muttered as he tapped on his
keyboard. Maybe he was messaging his friends on
uglyface.com.
I stepped forward and he tensed, probably smelling
something was wrong. He leaped sideways towards a big
1115
red alarm button, but I blocked his path. He hissed and
lunged at me, but one slice of Riptide and he exploded into
dust.
‘One down,’ Beckendorf said. ‘About ﬁve thousand to go.’
He tossed me a jar of thick green liquid – Greek ﬁre, one of
the most dangerous magical substances in the world. Then
he threw me another essential tool of demigod heroes –
duct tape.
‘Slap that one on the console,’ he said. ‘I’ll get the
turbines.’
We went to work. The room was hot and humid, and in no
time we were drenched in sweat.
The boat kept chugging along. Being the son of Poseidon
and all, I have perfect bearings at sea. Don’t ask me how,
but I could tell we were at 40.19˚ north, 71.90˚ west,
making eighteen knots an hour, which meant the ship would
arrive in New York Harbor by dawn. This would be our only
chance to stop it.
I had just attached a second jar of Greek ﬁre to the control
panels when I heard the pounding of feet on metal steps –
so many creatures coming down the stairwell I could hear
them over the engines. Not a good sign.
I locked eyes with Beckendorf. ‘How much longer?’
‘Too long.’ He tapped his watch, which was our remote
control detonator. ‘I still have to wire the receiver and prime
the charges. Ten more minutes at least.’
Judging from the sound of the footsteps, we had about ten
seconds.
‘I’ll distract them,’ I said. ‘Meet you at the rendezvous
point.’
‘Percy –’
‘Wish me luck.’
He looked like he wanted to argue. The whole idea had
been to get in and out without being spotted. But we were
going to have to improvise.
‘Good luck,’ he said.
1116
I charged out of the door.
Half a dozen telkhines were tromping down the stairs. I cut
through them with Riptide faster than they could yelp. I kept
climbing – past another telkhine who was so startled he
dropped his Li’l Demons lunchbox. I left him alive – partly
because his lunchbox was cool, partly so he could raise the
alarm and hopefully get his friends to follow me rather than
head towards the engine room.
I burst through a door onto deck six and kept running. I’m
sure the carpeted hall had once been very plush, but over
the last three years of monster occupation the wallpaper,
carpet and stateroom doors had been clawed up and slimed
so it looked like the inside of a dragon’s throat (and, yes,
unfortunately I speak from experience).
Back on my ﬁrst visit to the Princess Andromeda, my old
enemy Luke had kept some dazed tourists on board for
show, shrouded in Mist so they didn’t realize they were on a
monster-infested ship. Now, I didn’t see any sign of tourists.
I hated to think what had happened to them, but I kind of
doubted they’d been allowed to go home with their bingo
winnings.
I reached the promenade, a big shopping mall that took
up the whole middle of the ship, and I stopped cold. In the
middle of the courtyard stood a fountain. And in the fountain
squatted a giant crab.
I’m not talking ‘giant’ like $7.99 all-you-can-eat Alaskan
king crab. I’m talking ‘giant’ like bigger than the fountain.
The monster rose over three metres out of the water. Its
shell was mottled blue and green, its pincers longer than my
body.
If you’ve ever seen a crab’s mouth, all foamy and gross
with whiskers and snapping bits, you can imagine this one
didn’t look any better blown up to billboard size. Its beady
black eyes glared at me, and I could see intelligence in them
1117
– and hate. The fact that I was the son of the sea god was
not going to win me any points with Mr Crabby.
‘FFFFﬀﬀﬀf,’ it hissed, sea foam dripping from its mouth.
The smell coming oﬀ it was like a garbage can full of ﬁsh
sticks that had been sitting in the sun all week.
Alarms blared. Soon I was going to have lots of company
and I had to keep moving.
‘Hey, crabby.’ I inched around the edge of the courtyard.
‘I’m just gonna scoot around you so –’
The crab moved with amazing speed. It scuttled out of the
fountain and came straight at me, pincers snapping. I dived
into a gift shop, ploughing through a rack of T-shirts. A crab
pincer smashed the glass walls to pieces and raked across
the room. I dashed back outside, breathing heavily, but Mr
Crabby turned and followed.
‘There!’ a voice said from a balcony above me. ‘Intruder!’
If I’d wanted to create a distraction, I’d succeeded, but
this was not where I wanted to ﬁght. If I got pinned down in
the centre of the ship, I was crab chow.
The demonic crustacean lunged at me. I sliced with
Riptide, taking oﬀ the tip of its claw. It hissed and foamed,
but didn’t seem very hurt.
I tried to remember anything from the old stories that
might help with this thing. Annabeth had told me about a
monster crab – something about Hercules crushing it under
his foot? That wasn’t going to work here. This crab was
slightly bigger than my Reeboks.
Then a weird thought came to me. Last Christmas, my
mom and I had brought Paul Bloﬁs to our old cabin at
Montauk, where we’d been going forever. Paul had taken me
crabbing, and when he’d brought up a net full of the things
he’d shown me how crabs have a chink in their armour,
right in the middle of their ugly bellies.
The only problem was getting to the ugly belly.
I glanced at the fountain, then at the marble ﬂoor, already
slick from scuttling crab tracks. I held out my hand,
1118
concentrating on the water, and the fountain exploded.
Water sprayed everywhere, three stories high, dousing the
balconies and the elevators and the windows of the shops.
The crab didn’t care. It loved water. It came at me sideways,
snapping and hissing, and I ran straight at it, screaming,
‘AHHHHHHH!’
Just before we collided, I hit the ground baseball-style and
slid on the wet marble ﬂoor straight under the creature. It
was like sliding under a seven-ton armoured vehicle. All the
crab had to do was sit and squash me, but before it realized
what was going on, I jabbed Riptide into the chink in its
armour, let go of the hilt and pushed myself out the back
side.
The monster shuddered and hissed. Its eyes dissolved. Its
shell turned bright red as its insides evaporated. The empty
shell clattered to the ﬂoor in a massive heap.
I didn’t have time to admire my handiwork. I ran for the
nearest stairs while all around me monsters and demigods
shouted orders and strapped on their weapons. I was
empty-handed. Riptide, being magic, would appear in my
pocket sooner or later, but for now it was stuck somewhere
under the wreckage of the crab, and I had no time to
retrieve it.
In the elevator foyer on deck eight, a couple of dracaenae
slithered across my path. From the waist up, they were
women with green scaly skin, yellow eyes and forked
tongues. From the waist down, they had double snake
trunks instead of legs. They held spears and weighted nets,
and I knew from experience they could use them.
‘What isss thisss?’ one said. ‘A prize for Kronosss!’
I wasn’t in the mood to play break-the-snake, but in front
of me was a stand with a model of the ship, like a YOU ARE
HERE display. I ripped the model oﬀ the pedestal and hurled
it at the ﬁrst dracaena. The boat smacked her in the face
and she went down with the ship. I jumped over her,
grabbed her friend’s spear and swung her around. She
1119
slammed into the elevator and I kept running towards the
front of the ship.
‘Get him!’ she screamed.
Hellhounds bayed. An arrow from somewhere whizzed
past my face and impaled itself in the mahogany-panelled
wall of the stairwell.
I didn’t care – as long as I got the monsters away from the
engine room and gave Beckendorf more time.
As I was running up the stairwell, a kid charged down. He
looked like he’d just woken up from a nap. His armour was
half on. He drew his sword and yelled, ‘Kronos!’ but he
sounded more scared than angry. He couldn’t have been
more than twelve – about the same age I was when I’d ﬁrst
arrived at Camp Half-Blood.
That thought depressed me. This kid was getting
brainwashed – trained to hate the gods and lash out
because he’d been born half-Olympian. Kronos was using
him, and yet the kid thought I was his enemy.
No way was I going to hurt him. I didn’t need a weapon for
this. I stepped inside his strike and grabbed his wrist,
slamming it against the wall. His sword clattered out of his
hand.
Then I did something I hadn’t planned on. It was probably
stupid. It deﬁnitely jeopardized our mission, but I couldn’t
help it.
‘If you want to live,’ I told him, ‘get oﬀ this ship now. Tell
the other demigods.’ Then I shoved him down the stairs and
sent him tumbling to the next ﬂoor.
I kept climbing.
Bad memories: a hallway ran past the cafeteria.
Annabeth, my half-brother Tyson and I had sneaked through
here three years ago on my ﬁrst visit.
I burst outside onto the main deck. Oﬀ the port bow, the
sky was darkening from purple to black. A swimming pool
glowed between two glass towers with more balconies and
1120
restaurant decks. The whole upper ship seemed eerily
deserted.
All I had to do was cross to the other side. Then I could
take the staircase down to the helipad – our emergency
rendezvous point. With any luck, Beckendorf would meet me
there. We’d jump into the sea. My water powers would
protect us both, and we’d detonate the charges from a
quarter of a mile away.
I was halfway across the deck when the sound of a voice
made me freeze. ‘You’re late, Percy.’
Luke stood on the balcony above me, a smile on his
scarred face. He wore jeans, a white T-shirt and ﬂip-ﬂops,
like he was just a normal college-aged guy, but his eyes told
the truth. They were solid gold.
‘We’ve been expecting you for days.’ At ﬁrst he sounded
normal, like Luke. But then his face twitched. A shudder
passed through his body like he’d just drunk something
really nasty. His voice became heavier, ancient and powerful
– the voice of the Titan lord Kronos. The words scraped
down my spine like a knife blade. ‘Come, bow before me.’
‘Yeah, that’ll happen,’ I muttered.
Laistrygonian giants ﬁled in on either side of the
swimming pool as if they’d been waiting for a cue. Each was
two and a half metres tall with tattooed arms, leather
armour and spiked clubs. Demigod archers appeared on the
roof above Luke. Two hellhounds leaped down from the
opposite balcony and snarled at me. Within seconds, I was
surrounded. A trap: there’s no way they could’ve got into
position so fast unless they knew I was coming.
I looked up at Luke and anger boiled inside me. I didn’t
know if Luke’s consciousness was even still alive inside that
body. Maybe, the way his voice had changed … or maybe it
was just Kronos adapting to his new form. I told myself it
didn’t matter. Luke had been twisted and evil long before
Kronos possessed him.
1121
A voice in my head said: I have to ﬁght him eventually.
Why not now?
According to that big prophecy, I was supposed to make a
choice that saved or destroyed the world when I was
sixteen. That was only seven days away. Why not now? If I
really had the power, what diﬀerence would a week make? I
could end this threat right here by taking down Kronos. Hey,
I’d fought monsters and gods before.
As if reading my thoughts, Luke smiled. No, he was
Kronos. I had to remember that.
‘Come forward,’ he said, ‘if you dare.’
The crowd of monsters parted. I moved up the stairs, my
heart pounding. I was sure somebody would stab me in the
back, but they let me pass. I felt my pocket and found my
pen waiting. I uncapped it and Riptide grew into a sword.
Kronos’s weapon appeared in his hands – a two-metre-
long scythe, half celestial bronze, half mortal steel. Just
looking at the thing made my knees turn to Jell-O. But
before I could change my mind I charged.
Time slowed down. I mean literally slowed down, because
Kronos had that power. I felt like I was moving through
syrup. My arms were so heavy I could barely raise my
sword. Kronos smiled, swirling his scythe at normal speed
and waiting for me to creep towards my death.
I tried to ﬁght his magic. I concentrated on the sea around
me – the source of my power. I’d got better at channelling it
over the years, but now nothing seemed to happen.
I 
took 
another 
slow 
step 
forward. 
Giants 
jeered.
Dracaenae hissed with laughter.
Hey, ocean, I pleaded. Any day now would be good.
Suddenly there was a wrenching pain in my gut. The
entire boat lurched sideways, throwing monsters oﬀ their
feet. Four thousand gallons of salt water surged out of the
swimming pool, dousing me and Kronos and everyone on
the deck. The water revitalized me, breaking the time spell,
and I lunged forward.
1122
I struck at Kronos but I was still too slow. I made the
mistake of looking at his face – Luke’s face, a guy who was
once my friend. As much as I hated him, it was hard to kill
him.
Kronos had no such hesitation. He sliced downward with
his scythe. I leaped back and the evil blade missed by a
millimetre, cutting a gash in the deck right between my
feet.
I kicked Kronos in the chest. He stumbled backwards, but
he was heavier than Luke should’ve been. It was like kicking
a refrigerator.
Kronos swung his scythe again. I intercepted with Riptide,
but his strike was so powerful my blade could only deﬂect it.
The edge of the scythe shaved oﬀ my shirtsleeve and
grazed my arm. It shouldn’t have been a serious cut, but the
entire side of my body exploded with pain. I remembered
what a sea-demon had once said about Kronos’s scythe:
Careful, fool. One touch, and the blade will sever your soul
from your body. Now I understood what he meant. I wasn’t
just losing blood. I could feel my strength, my will, my
identity draining away.
I stumbled backwards, switched my sword to my left hand
and lunged desperately. My blade should’ve run him
through, but it deﬂected oﬀ his stomach like I was hitting
solid marble. There was no way he should’ve survived that.
Kronos laughed. ‘A poor performance, Percy Jackson. Luke
tells me you were never his match at swordplay.’
My vision started to blur. I knew I didn’t have much time.
‘Luke had a big head,’ I said. ‘But at least it was his head.’
‘A shame to kill you now,’ Kronos mused, ‘before the ﬁnal
plan unfolds. I would love to see the terror in your eyes
when you realize how I will destroy Olympus.’
‘You’ll never get this boat to Manhattan.’ My arm was
throbbing. Black spots danced in my eyes.
‘And why would that be?’ Kronos’s golden eyes glittered.
His face – Luke’s face – seemed like a mask, unnatural and
1123
lit from behind by some evil power. ‘Perhaps you are
counting on your friend with the explosives?’
He looked down at the pool and called, ‘Nakamura!’
A teenage guy in full Greek armour pushed through the
crowd. His left eye was covered with a black patch. I knew
him, of course: Ethan Nakamura, the son of Nemesis. I’d
saved his life in the Labyrinth last summer and, in return,
the little punk helped Kronos come back to life.
‘Success, my lord,’ Ethan called. ‘We found him just as we
were told.’
He clapped his hands and two giants lumbered forward,
dragging Charles Beckendorf between them. My heart
almost stopped. Beckendorf had a swollen eye and cuts all
over his face and arms. His armour was gone and his shirt
was nearly torn oﬀ.
‘No!’ I yelled.
Beckendorf met my eyes. He glanced at his hand like he
was trying to tell me something. His watch. They hadn’t
taken it yet, and that was the detonator. Was it possible the
explosives were armed? Surely the monsters would’ve
dismantled them right away.
‘We found him amidships,’ one of the giants said, ‘trying
to sneak to the engine room. Can we eat him now?’
‘Soon.’ Kronos scowled at Ethan. ‘Are you sure he didn’t
set the explosives?’
‘He was going towards the engine room, my lord.’
‘How do you know that?’
‘Er  …’ Ethan shifted uncomfortably. ‘He was heading in
that direction. And he told us. His bag is still full of
explosives.’
Slowly, I began to understand. Beckendorf had fooled
them. When he’d realized he was going to be captured, he
turned to make it look like he was going the other way. He’d
convinced them he hadn’t made it to the engine room yet.
The Greek ﬁre might still be primed! But that didn’t do us
any good unless we could get oﬀ the ship and detonate it.
1124
Kronos hesitated.
Buy the story, I prayed. The pain in my arm was so bad
now I could barely stand.
‘Open his bag,’ Kronos ordered.
One of the giants ripped the explosives satchel from
Beckendorf’s shoulders. He peered inside, grunted and
turned 
it 
upside 
down. 
Panicked 
monsters 
surged
backwards. If the bag really had been full of Greek ﬁre jars,
we would’ve all blown up. But what fell out were a dozen
cans of peaches.
I could hear Kronos breathing, trying to control his anger.
‘Did you, perhaps,’ he said, ‘capture this demigod near
the galley?’
Ethan turned pale. ‘Um –’
‘And did you, perhaps, send someone to actually CHECK
THE ENGINE ROOM?’
Ethan scrambled back in terror, then turned on his heels
and ran.
I cursed silently. Now we had only minutes before the
bombs were disarmed. I caught Beckendorf’s eyes again
and asked a silent question, hoping he would understand:
How long?
He cupped his ﬁngers and thumb, making a circle. ZERO.
There was no delay on the timer at all. If he managed to
press the detonator button, the ship would blow at once.
We’d never be able to get far enough away before using it.
The monsters would kill us ﬁrst, or disarm the explosives, or
both.
Kronos turned towards me with a crooked smile. ‘You’ll
have to excuse my incompetent help, Percy Jackson, but it
doesn’t matter. We have you now. We’ve known you were
coming for weeks.’
He held out his hand and dangled a little silver bracelet
with a scythe charm – the Titan lord’s symbol.
The wound in my arm was sapping my ability to think, but
I muttered, ‘Communication device … spy at camp.’
1125
Kronos chuckled. ‘You can’t count on friends. They will
always let you down. Luke learned that lesson the hard way.
Now drop your sword and surrender to me, or your friend
dies.’
I swallowed. One of the giants had his hand around
Beckendorf’s neck. I was in no shape to rescue him and,
even if I tried, he would die before I got there. We both
would.
Beckendorf mouthed one word: Go.
I shook my head. I couldn’t just leave him.
The second giant was still rummaging through the peach
cans, which meant Beckendorf’s left arm was free. He raised
it slowly – towards the watch on his right wrist.
I wanted to scream, NO!
Then down by the swimming pool one of the dracaenae
hissed, ‘What isss he doing? What isss that on hisss
wrissst?’
Beckendorf closed his eyes tight and brought his hand up
to his watch.
I had no choice. I threw my sword like a javelin at Kronos.
It bounced harmlessly oﬀ his chest, but it did startle him. I
pushed through a crowd of monsters and jumped oﬀ the
side of the ship – towards the water thirty metres below.
I heard rumbling deep in the ship. Monsters yelled at me
from above. A spear sailed past my ear. An arrow pierced
my thigh, but I barely had time to register the pain. I
plunged into the sea and willed the currents to take me far,
far away – ﬁfty metres, a hundred metres.
Even from that distance, the explosion shook the world.
Heat seared the back of my head. The Princess Andromeda
blew up from both sides, a massive ﬁreball of green ﬂame
roiling into the dark sky, consuming everything.
Beckendorf, I thought.
Then I blacked out and sank like an anchor towards the
bottom of the sea.
1126
2    I Meet Some Fishy Relatives
 
Demigod dreams suck.
The thing is they’re never just dreams. They’ve got to be
visions, omens and all that other mystical stuﬀ that makes
my brain hurt.
I dreamed I was in a dark palace at the top of a mountain.
Unfortunately, I recognized it: the palace of the Titans on
top of Mount Othrys, otherwise known as Mount Tamalpais
in California. The main pavilion was open to the night,
ringed with black Greek columns and statues of the Titans.
Torchlight glowed against the black marble ﬂoor. In the
centre of the room, an armoured giant struggled under the
weight of a swirling funnel cloud – Atlas, holding up the sky.
Two other giant men stood nearby over a bronze brazier,
studying images in the ﬂames.
‘Quite an explosion,’ one said. He wore black armour
studded with silver dots like a starry night. His face was
covered in a war helm with a ram’s horn curling on either
side.
‘It doesn’t matter,’ the other said. This Titan was dressed
in gold robes, with golden eyes like Kronos. His entire body
glowed. He reminded me of Apollo, god of the sun, except
the Titan’s light was harsher, and his expression crueller.
‘The gods have answered the challenge. Soon they will be
destroyed.’
The images in the ﬁre were hard to make out: storms,
buildings crumbling, mortals screaming in terror.
‘I will go east to marshal our forces,’ the golden Titan said.
‘Krios, you shall remain and guard Mount Othrys.’
1127
The ram-horn dude grunted. ‘I always get the stupid jobs.
Lord of the South. Lord of Constellations. Now I get to
babysit Atlas while you have all the fun.’
Under the whirlwind of clouds, Atlas bellowed in agony.
‘Let me out, curse you! I am your greatest warrior. Take my
burden so I may ﬁght!’
‘Quiet!’ the golden Titan roared. ‘You had your chance,
Atlas. You failed. Kronos likes you just where you are. As for
you, Krios: do your duty.’
‘And if you need more warriors?’ Krios asked. ‘Our
treacherous nephew in the tuxedo will not do you much
good in a ﬁght.’
The golden Titan laughed. ‘Don’t worry about him.
Besides, the gods can barely handle our ﬁrst little challenge.
They have no idea how many others we have in store. Mark
my words, in a few days’ time, Olympus will be in ruins, and
we will meet here again to celebrate the dawn of the Sixth
Age!’
The golden Titan erupted into ﬂames and disappeared.
‘Oh, sure,’ Krios grumbled. ‘He gets to erupt into ﬂames. I
get to wear these stupid rams’ horns.’
The scene shifted. Now I was outside the pavilion, hiding
in the shadows of a Greek column. A boy stood next to me,
eavesdropping on the Titans. He had dark silky hair, pale
skin and dark clothes – my friend Nico di Angelo, the son of
Hades.
He looked straight at me, his expression grim. ‘You see,
Percy?’ he whispered. ‘You’re running out of time. Do you
really think you can beat them without my plan?’
His words washed over me as cold as the ocean ﬂoor, and
my dreams went black.
‘Percy?’ a deep voice said.
My head felt like it had been microwaved in tinfoil. I
opened my eyes and saw a large shadowy ﬁgure looming
over me.
1128
‘Beckendorf?’ I asked hopefully.
‘No, brother.’
My eyes refocused. I was looking at a Cyclops – a
misshapen face, ratty brown hair, one big brown eye full of
concern. ‘Tyson?’
My brother broke into a toothy grin. ‘Yay! Your brain
works!’
I wasn’t so sure. My body felt weightless and cold. My
voice sounded wrong. I could hear Tyson, but it was more
like I was hearing vibrations inside my skull, not the regular
sounds.
I sat up and a gossamer sheet ﬂoated away. I was on a
bed made of silky woven kelp, in a room panelled with
abalone shell. Glowing pearls the size of basketballs ﬂoated
around the ceiling, providing light. I was underwater.
Now, being the son of Poseidon and all, I was okay with
this. I can breathe underwater just ﬁne, and my clothes
don’t even get wet unless I want them to. But it was still a
bit of a shock when a hammerhead shark drifted through
the bedroom window, regarded me and then swam calmly
out the opposite side of the room.
‘Where –’
‘Daddy’s palace,’ Tyson said.
Under diﬀerent circumstances, I would’ve been excited.
I’d never visited Poseidon’s realm, and I’d been dreaming
about it for years. But my head hurt. My shirt was still
speckled with burn marks from the explosion. My arm and
leg wounds had healed – just being in the ocean can do that
for me, given enough time – but I still felt like I’d been
trampled by a Laistrygonian rugby team in studs.
‘How long –’
‘We found you last night,’ Tyson said, ‘sinking through the
water.’
‘The Princess Andromeda?’
‘Went ka-boom,’ Tyson conﬁrmed.
‘Beckendorf was on board. Did you ﬁnd …’
1129
Tyson’s face darkened. ‘No sign of him. I am sorry,
brother.’
I stared out of the window into deep blue water.
Beckendorf was supposed to go to college in the fall. He had
a girlfriend, lots of friends, his whole life ahead of him. He
couldn’t be gone. Maybe he’d made it oﬀ the ship like I had.
Maybe he’d jumped over the side … and what? He couldn’t
have survived a thirty-metre fall into the water like I could.
He couldn’t put enough distance between himself and the
explosion.
I knew in my gut he was dead. He’d sacriﬁced himself to
take out the Princess Andromeda, and I had abandoned him.
I thought about my dream: the Titans discussing the
explosion as if it didn’t matter, Nico di Angelo warning me
that I would never beat Kronos without following his plan – a
dangerous idea I’d been avoiding for over a year.
A distant blast shook the room. Green light blazed outside,
turning the whole sea as bright as noon.
‘What was that?’ I asked.
Tyson looked worried. ‘Daddy will explain. Come, he is
blowing up monsters.’
The palace might have been the most amazing place I’d
ever seen if it hadn’t been in the process of getting
destroyed. We swam to the end of a long hallway and shot
upward on a geyser. As we rose over the rooftops, I caught
my breath – well, if you can catch your breath underwater.
The palace was as big as the city on Mount Olympus, with
wide courtyards, gardens and columned pavilions. The
gardens were sculpted with coral colonies and glowing sea
plants. Twenty or thirty buildings were made of abalone,
white but gleaming with rainbow colours. Fish and octopi
darted in and out of the windows. The paths were lined with
glowing pearls like Christmas lights.
The main courtyard was ﬁlled with warriors – mermen with
ﬁsh tails from the waist down and human bodies from the
1130
waist up, except their skin was blue, which I’d never known
before. Some were tending the wounded. Some were
sharpening spears and swords. One passed us, swimming in
a hurry. His eyes were bright green, like that stuﬀ they put
in glow sticks, and his teeth were shark teeth. They don’t
show you stuﬀ like that in The Little Mermaid.
Outside the main courtyard stood large fortiﬁcations –
towers, walls and anti-siege weapons – but most of these
had been smashed to ruins. Others were blazing with a
strange green light that I knew well – Greek ﬁre, which can
burn even underwater.
Beyond this, the sea ﬂoor stretched into gloom. I could
see battles raging – ﬂashes of energy, explosions, the glint
of armies clashing. A regular human would’ve found it too
dark to see. Heck, a regular human would’ve been crushed
by the pressure and frozen by the cold. Even my heat-
sensitive eyes couldn’t make out exactly what was going on.
At the edge of the palace complex, a temple with a red
coral roof exploded, sending ﬁre and debris streaming in
slow motion across the furthest gardens. Out of the
darkness above, an enormous form appeared – a squid
larger than any skyscraper. It was surrounded by a glittering
cloud of dust – at least I thought it was dust until I realized it
was a swarm of mermen, trying to attack the monster. The
squid descended on the palace and swatted its tentacles,
smashing a whole column of warriors. Then a brilliant arc of
blue light shot from the rooftop of one of the tallest
buildings. The light hit the giant squid and the monster
dissolved like food colouring in water.
‘Daddy,’ Tyson said, pointing to where the light had come
from.
‘He did that?’ I suddenly felt more hopeful. My dad had
unbelievable powers. He was the god of the sea. He could
deal with this attack, right? Maybe he’d let me help.
‘Have you been in the ﬁght?’ I asked Tyson in awe. ‘Like,
bashing heads with your awesome Cyclops strength and
1131
stuﬀ?’
Tyson pouted, and immediately I knew I’d asked a bad
question. ‘I have been  … ﬁxing weapons,’ he mumbled.
‘Come. Let’s go ﬁnd Daddy.’
I know this might sound weird to people with, like, regular
parents, but I’d only seen my dad four or ﬁve times in my
life, and never for more than a few minutes. The Greek gods
don’t exactly show up for their kids’ basketball games. Still,
I thought I would recognize Poseidon on sight.
I was wrong.
The roof of the temple was a big open deck that had been
set up as a command centre. A mosaic on the ﬂoor showed
an exact map of the palace grounds and the surrounding
ocean, but the mosaic moved. Coloured stone tiles
representing diﬀerent armies and sea monsters shifted
around as the forces changed position. Buildings that
collapsed in real life also collapsed in the picture.
Standing around the mosaic, grimly studying the battle,
was a strange assortment of warriors, but none of them
looked like my dad. I was searching for a big guy with a
good tan and a black beard, wearing Bermuda shorts and a
Hawaiian shirt.
There was nobody like that. One guy was a merman with
two ﬁsh tails instead of one. His skin was green and his
armour studded with pearls. His black hair was tied in a
ponytail and he looked young – though it’s hard to tell with
non-humans. They could be a thousand years old or three.
Standing next to him was an old man with a bushy white
beard and grey hair. His battle armour seemed to weigh him
down. He had green eyes and smile wrinkles around his
eyes, but he wasn’t smiling now. He was studying the map
and leaning on a large metal staﬀ. To his right stood a
beautiful woman in green armour with ﬂowing black hair
and strange little horns like crab claws. And there was a
1132
dolphin – just a regular dolphin, but it was staring at the
map intently.
‘Delphin,’ the old man said. ‘Send Palaemon and his legion
of sharks to the western front. We have to neutralize those
leviathans.’
The dolphin spoke in a chattering voice, but I could
understand it in my mind: Yes, lord! It sped away.
I looked in dismay at Tyson, then back at the old man.
It didn’t seem possible, but … ‘Dad?’ I asked.
The old man looked up. I recognized the twinkle in his
eyes, but his face … he looked like he’d aged forty years.
‘Hello, Percy.’
‘What – what happened to you?’
Tyson nudged me. He was shaking his head so hard I was
afraid it would fall oﬀ, but Poseidon didn’t look oﬀended.
‘It’s all right, Tyson,’ he said. ‘Percy, excuse my
appearance. The war has been hard on me.’
‘But you’re immortal,’ I said quietly. ‘You can look … any
way you want.’
‘I reﬂect the state of my realm,’ he said. ‘And right now
that state is quite grim. Percy, I should introduce you – I’m
afraid you just missed my lieutenant Delphin, god of the
dolphins. This is my, er, wife, Amphitrite. My dear –’
The lady in green armour stared at me coldly then crossed
her arms and said, ‘Excuse me, my lord. I am needed in the
battle.’
She swam away.
I felt pretty awkward, but I guess I couldn’t blame her. I’d
never thought about it much, but my dad had an immortal
wife. All his romances with mortals, including with my
mom … well, Amphitrite probably didn’t like that much.
Poseidon cleared his throat. ‘Yes, well … and this is my son
Triton. Er, my other son.’
‘Your son and heir,’ the green dude corrected. His double
ﬁshtails swished back and forth. He smiled at me, but there
1133
was no friendliness in his eyes. ‘Hello, Perseus Jackson.
Come to help at last?’
He acted like I was late or lazy. If you can blush
underwater, I probably did.
‘Tell me what to do,’ I said.
Triton smiled like that was a cute suggestion – like I was a
slightly amusing dog that had barked for him or something.
He turned to Poseidon. ‘I will see to the front line, Father.
Don’t worry. I will not fail.’
He nodded politely to Tyson. How come I didn’t get that
much respect? Then he shot oﬀ into the water.
Poseidon sighed. He raised his staﬀ and it changed into
his regular weapon – a huge three-pointed trident. The tips
glowed with blue light and the water around it boiled with
energy.
‘I’m sorry about that,’ he told me.
A huge sea serpent appeared from above us and spiralled
down towards the roof. It was bright orange with a fanged
mouth big enough to swallow a gymnasium.
Hardly looking up, Poseidon pointed his trident at the
beast and zapped it with blue energy. Ka-boom! The
monster burst into a million goldﬁsh, which all swam oﬀ in
terror.
‘My family is anxious,’ Poseidon continued, as if nothing
had happened. ‘The battle against Oceanus is going poorly.’
He pointed to the edge of the mosaic. With the butt of his
trident, he tapped the image of a merman larger than the
rest, with the horns of a bull. He appeared to be riding a
chariot pulled by crawﬁsh, and instead of a sword he
wielded a live serpent.
‘Oceanus,’ I said, trying to remember. ‘The Titan of the
sea?’
Poseidon nodded. ‘He was neutral in the ﬁrst war of gods
and Titans. But Kronos has convinced him to ﬁght. This is …
well, it’s not a good sign. Oceanus would not commit unless
he was sure he could pick the winning side.’
1134
‘He looks stupid,’ I said, trying to sound upbeat. ‘I mean
who ﬁghts with a snake?’
‘Daddy will tie it in knots,’ Tyson said ﬁrmly.
Poseidon smiled, but he looked weary. ‘I appreciate your
faith. We have been at war almost a year now. My powers
are taxed. And still he ﬁnds new forces to throw at me – sea
monsters so ancient I had forgotten about them.’
I heard an explosion in the distance. About half a mile
away, a mountain of coral disintegrated under the weight of
two giant creatures. I could dimly make out their shapes.
One was a lobster. The other was a giant humanoid like a
Cyclops, but he was surrounded by a ﬂurry of limbs. At ﬁrst I
thought he was wearing a bunch of giant octopi. Then I
realized they were his own arms – a hundred ﬂailing,
ﬁghting arms.
‘Briares!’ I said.
I was happy to see him, but he looked like he was ﬁghting
for his life. He was the last of his kind – a Hundred-handed
One, cousin of the Cyclopes. We’d saved him from Kronos’s
prison last summer and I knew he’d come to help Poseidon,
but I hadn’t heard of him since.
‘He ﬁghts well,’ Poseidon said. ‘I wish we had a whole
army like him, but he is only one.’
I watched as Briares bellowed in rage and picked up the
lobster, which thrashed and snapped its pincers. He threw it
oﬀ the coral mountain and the lobster disappeared into the
darkness. Briares swam after it, his hundred arms spinning
like the blades of a motorboat.
‘Percy, we may not have much time,’ my dad said. ‘Tell
me of your mission. Did you see Kronos?’
I told him everything, though my voice choked up when I
explained about Beckendorf. I looked down at the courtyards
below and saw hundreds of wounded mermen lying on
makeshift cots. I saw rows of coral mounds that must’ve
been hastily made graves. I realized Beckendorf wasn’t the
1135
ﬁrst death. He was only one of hundreds, maybe thousands.
I’d never felt so angry and helpless.
Poseidon stroked his beard. ‘Percy, Beckendorf chose a
heroic death. You bear no blame for that. Kronos’s army will
be in disarray. Many were destroyed.’
‘But we didn’t kill him, did we?’
As I said it, I knew it was a naive hope. We might blow up
his ship and disintegrate his monsters, but a Titan lord
wouldn’t be so easy to kill.
‘No,’ Poseidon admitted. ‘But you’ve bought our side
some time.’
‘There were demigods on that ship,’ I said, thinking of the
kid I’d seen in the stairwell. Somehow I’d allowed myself to
concentrate on the monsters and Kronos. I’d convinced
myself that destroying their ship was all right because they
were evil, they were sailing to attack my city and, besides,
they couldn’t really be permanently killed. Monsters just
vaporized and re-formed eventually. But demigods …
Poseidon put his hand on my shoulder. ‘Percy, there were
only a few demigod warriors aboard that ship, and they all
chose to battle for Kronos. Perhaps some heeded your
warning and escaped. If they did not  … they chose their
path.’
‘They were brainwashed!’ I said. ‘Now they’re dead and
Kronos is still alive. That’s supposed to make me feel
better?’
I glared at the mosaic – little tile explosions destroying tile
monsters. It seemed so easy when it was just a picture.
Tyson put his arm around me. If anybody else had tried
that, I would’ve pushed them away, but Tyson was too big
and stubborn. He hugged me whether I wanted it or not.
‘Not your fault, brother. Kronos does not explode good. Next
time we will use a big stick.’
‘Percy,’ my father said. ‘Beckendorf’s sacriﬁce wasn’t in
vain. You have scattered the invasion force. New York will be
1136
safe for a time, which frees the other Olympians to deal with
the bigger threat.’
‘The bigger threat?’ I thought about what the golden Titan
had said in my dream: The gods have answered the
challenge. Soon they will be destroyed.
A shadow passed over my father’s face. ‘You’ve had
enough sorrow for one day. Ask Chiron when you return to
camp.’
‘Return to camp? But you’re in trouble here. I want to
help!’
‘You can’t, Percy. Your job is elsewhere.’
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this. I looked at Tyson for
backup.
My brother chewed his lip. ‘Daddy … Percy can ﬁght with
a sword. He is good.’
‘I know that,’ Poseidon said gently.
‘Dad, I can help,’ I said. ‘I know I can. You’re not going to
hold out here much longer.’
A ﬁreball launched into the sky from behind the enemy
lines. I thought Poseidon would deﬂect it or something, but
it landed on the outer corner of the yard and exploded,
sending mermen tumbling through the water. Poseidon
winced as if he’d just been stabbed.
‘Return to camp,’ he insisted. ‘And tell Chiron it is time.’
‘For what?’
‘You must hear the prophecy. The entire prophecy.’
I didn’t need to ask him which prophecy. I’d been hearing
about the ‘Great Prophecy’ for years, but nobody would ever
tell me the whole thing. All I knew was that I was supposed
to make a decision that would decide the fate of the world –
but no pressure.
‘What if this is the decision?’ I said. ‘Staying here to ﬁght,
or leaving? What if I leave and you …’
I couldn’t say die. Gods weren’t supposed to die, but I’d
seen it happen. Even if they didn’t die, they could be
1137
reduced to nearly nothing, exiled, imprisoned in the depths
of Tartarus like Kronos had been.
‘Percy, you must go,’ Poseidon insisted. ‘I don’t know what
your ﬁnal decision will be, but your ﬁght lies in the world
above. If nothing else, you must warn your friends at camp.
Kronos knew your plans. You have a spy. We will hold here.
We have no choice.’
Tyson gripped my hand desperately. ‘I will miss you,
brother!’
Watching us, our father seemed to age another ten years.
‘Tyson, you have work to do as well, my son. They need you
in the armoury.’
Tyson pouted some more.
‘I will go,’ he sniﬄed. He hugged me so hard he almost
cracked my ribs. ‘Percy, be careful! Do not let monsters kill
you dead!’
I tried to nod conﬁdently, but it was too much for the big
guy. He sobbed and swam away towards the armoury where
his cousins were ﬁxing spears and swords.
‘You should let him ﬁght,’ I told my father. ‘He hates being
stuck in the armoury. Can’t you tell?’
Poseidon shook his head. ‘It is bad enough I must send
you into danger. Tyson is too young. I must protect him.’
‘You should trust him,’ I said. ‘Not try to protect him.’
Poseidon’s eyes ﬂared. I thought I’d gone too far, but then
he looked down at the mosaic and his shoulders sagged. On
the tiles, the mermaid guy in the crawﬁsh chariot was
coming closer to the palace.
‘Oceanus approaches,’ my father said. ‘I must meet him in
battle.’
I’d never been scared for a god before, but I didn’t see
how my dad could face this Titan and win.
‘I will hold,’ Poseidon promised. ‘I will not give up my
domain. Just tell me, Percy, do you still have the birthday
gift I gave you last summer?’
1138
I nodded and pulled out my camp necklace. It had a bead
for every summer I’d been at Camp Half-Blood, but since
last year I’d also kept a sand dollar on the cord. My father
had given it to me for my ﬁfteenth birthday. He’d told me I
would know when to ‘spend it’, but so far I hadn’t ﬁgured
out what he meant. All I knew was that it didn’t ﬁt the
vending machines in the school cafeteria.
‘The time is coming,’ he promised. ‘With luck, I will see
you for your birthday next week, and we will have a proper
celebration.’
He smiled, and for a moment I saw the old light in his
eyes.
Then the entire sea grew dark in front of us, like an inky
storm was rolling in. Thunder crackled, which should’ve
been impossible underwater. A huge icy presence was
approaching. I sensed a wave of fear roll through the armies
below us.
‘I must assume my true godly form,’ Poseidon said. ‘Go –
and good luck, my son.’
I wanted to encourage him, to hug him or something, but
knew better than to stick around. When a god assumes his
true form, the power is so great that any mortal looking on
him will disintegrate.
‘Goodbye, Father,’ I managed.
Then I turned away. I willed the ocean currents to aid me.
Water swirled around me and I shot towards the surface at
speeds that would’ve caused any normal human to pop like
a balloon.
When I looked back, all I could see were ﬂashes of green
and blue as my father fought the Titan and the sea itself
was torn apart by the two armies.
1139
3    I Get a Sneak Peek At My Death
 
If you want to be popular at Camp Half-Blood, don’t come
back from a mission with bad news.
Word of my arrival spread as soon as I walked out of the
ocean. Our beach is on the North Shore of Long Island, and
it’s enchanted so most people can’t even see it. People
don’t just appear on the beach unless they’re demigods or
gods or really, really lost pizza delivery guys. (It’s happened
– but that’s another story.)
Anyway, that afternoon the lookout on duty was Connor
Stoll from Hermes cabin. When he spotted me, he got so
excited he fell out of his tree. Then he blew the conch horn
to signal the camp and ran to greet me.
Connor had a crooked smile that matched his crooked
sense of humour. He’s a pretty nice guy, but you should
always keep one hand on your wallet when he’s around and
do not, under any circumstances, give him access to
shaving cream unless you want to ﬁnd your sleeping bag full
of it. He’s got curly brown hair and is a little shorter than his
brother Travis, which is the only way I can tell them apart.
They are both so unlike my old enemy Luke it’s hard to
believe they’re all sons of Hermes.
‘Percy!’ he yelled. ‘What happened? Where’s Beckendorf?’
Then he saw my expression, and his smile melted. ‘Oh no.
Poor Silena. Holy Zeus, when she ﬁnds out …’
Together we climbed the sand dunes. A few hundred
metres away, people were already streaming towards us,
smiling and excited. Percy’s back, they were probably
thinking. He’s saved the day! Maybe he brought souvenirs!
1140
I stopped at the dining pavilion and waited for them. No
sense rushing down there to tell them what a loser I was.
I gazed across the valley and tried to remember how
Camp Half-Blood looked the ﬁrst time I saw it. That seemed
like a bajillion years ago.
From the dining pavilion, you could see pretty much
everything. Hills ringed the valley. On the tallest, Half-Blood
Hill, Thalia’s pine tree stood with the Golden Fleece hanging
from its branches, magically protecting the camp from its
enemies. The guard dragon Peleus was so big now I could
see him from here – curled around the tree trunk, sending
up smoke signals as he snored.
To my right spread the woods. To my left, the canoe lake
glittered and the climbing wall glowed from the lava pouring
down its side. Twelve cabins – one for each Olympian god –
made a horseshoe pattern around the commons area.
Further south were the strawberry ﬁelds, the armoury and
the four-storey Big House with its sky-blue paint job and its
bronze-eagle weathervane.
In some ways, the camp hadn’t changed. But you couldn’t
see the war by looking at the buildings or the ﬁelds. You
could see it in the faces of the demigods and satyrs and
naiads coming up the hill.
There weren’t as many at camp as four summers ago.
Some had left and never come back. Some had died
ﬁghting. Others – we tried not to talk about them – had gone
over to the enemy.
The ones who were still here were battle-hardened and
weary. There was little laughter at camp these days. Even
the Hermes cabin didn’t play so many pranks. It’s hard to
enjoy practical jokes when your whole life feels like one.
Chiron galloped into the pavilion ﬁrst, which was easy for
him since he’s a white stallion from the waist down. His
beard had grown wilder over the summer. He wore a green
T-shirt that said MY OTHER CAR IS A CENTAUR and a bow
slung over his back.
1141
‘Percy!’ he said. ‘Thank the gods. But where …’
Annabeth ran in right behind him, and I’ll admit my heart
did a little relay race in my chest when I saw her. It’s not
that she tried to look good. We’d been doing so many
combat missions lately she hardly brushed her curly blonde
hair any more and she didn’t care what clothes she was
wearing – usually the same old orange camp T-shirt and
jeans and once in a while her bronze armour. Her eyes were
stormy grey. Most of the time, we couldn’t get through a
conversation without trying to strangle each other. Still, just
seeing her made me feel fuzzy in the head. Last summer,
before Luke had turned into Kronos and everything went
sour, there had been a few times when I thought maybe …
well, we might get past the strangle-each-other phase.
‘What happened?’ She grabbed my arm. ‘Is Luke –’
‘The ship blew up,’ I said. ‘He wasn’t destroyed. I don’t
know where –’
Silena Beauregard pushed through the crowd. Her hair
wasn’t combed and she wasn’t even wearing makeup, which
wasn’t like her.
‘Where’s Charlie?’ she demanded, looking around like he
might be hiding.
I glanced at Chiron helplessly.
The old centaur cleared his throat. ‘Silena, my dear, let’s
talk about this at the Big House –’
‘No,’ she muttered. ‘No. No.’
She started to cry, and the rest of us stood around, too
stunned to speak. We’d already lost so many people over
the summer, but this was the worst. With Beckendorf gone,
it felt like someone had stolen the anchor for the entire
camp.
Finally Clarisse from the Ares cabin came forward. She put
her arm around Silena. They had one of the strangest
friendships ever – a daughter of the war god and a daughter
of the love goddess – but ever since Silena had given
1142
Clarisse advice last summer about her ﬁrst boyfriend,
Clarisse had decided she was Silena’s personal bodyguard.
Clarisse was dressed in her blood-red combat armour, her
brown hair tucked into a bandanna. She was as big and
beefy as a rugby player, with a permanent scowl on her
face, but she spoke gently to Silena.
‘Come on, girl,’ she said. ‘Let’s get to the Big House. I’ll
make you some hot chocolate.’
Everyone turned and wandered oﬀ in twos and threes,
heading back to the cabins. Nobody was excited to see me
now. Nobody wanted to hear about the blown-up ship.
Only Annabeth and Chiron stayed behind.
Annabeth wiped a tear from her cheek. ‘I’m glad you’re
not dead, Seaweed Brain.’
‘Thanks,’ I said. ‘Me too.’
Chiron put a hand on my shoulder. ‘I’m sure you did
everything you could, Percy. Will you tell us what
happened?’
I didn’t want to go through it again, but I told them the
story, including my dream about the Titans. I left out the
detail about Nico. Nico had made me promise not to tell
anybody about his plan until I made up my mind, and the
plan was so scary I didn’t mind keeping it a secret.
Chiron gazed down at the valley. ‘We must call a war
council immediately to discuss this spy, and other matters.’
‘Poseidon mentioned another threat,’ I said, ‘something
even bigger than the Princess Andromeda. I thought it might
be that challenge the Titan mentioned in my dream.’
Chiron and Annabeth exchanged looks, like they knew
something I didn’t. I hated it when they did that.
‘We will discuss that also,’ Chiron promised.
‘One more thing.’ I took a deep breath. ‘When I talked to
my father, he said to tell you it’s time. I need to know the
full prophecy.’
Chiron’s shoulders sagged, but he didn’t look surprised.
‘I’ve dreaded this day. Very well. Annabeth, we will show
1143
Percy the truth – all of it. Let’s go to the attic.’
I’d been to the Big House attic three times before, which
was three times more than I wanted to.
A ladder led up from the top of the staircase. I wondered
how Chiron was going to get up there, being half horse and
all, but he didn’t try.
‘You know where it is,’ he told Annabeth. ‘Bring it down,
please.’
Annabeth nodded. ‘Come on, Percy.’
The sun was setting outside, so the attic was even darker
and creepier than usual. Old hero trophies were stacked
everywhere – dented shields, pickled heads in jars from
various monsters, a pair of fuzzy dice on a bronze plaque
that read: STOLEN FROM CHRYSAOR’S HONDA CIVIC, BY GUS, SON OF
HERMES, 1988.
I picked up a curved bronze sword so badly bent it looked
like a letter M. I could still see green stains on the metal
from the magical poison that used to cover it. The tag was
dated last summer. It read: SCIMITAR OF KAMPÊ, DESTROYED IN THE
BATTLE OF THE LABYRINTH.
‘You remember Briares throwing those boulders?’ I asked.
Annabeth gave me a grudging smile. ‘And Grover causing
a Panic?’
We locked eyes. I thought of a diﬀerent time last summer,
under Mount St Helens, when Annabeth thought I was going
to die, and she kissed me.
She cleared her throat and looked away. ‘Prophecy.’
‘Right.’ I put down the scimitar. ‘Prophecy.’
We walked over to the window. On a three-legged stool sat
the Oracle – a shrivelled female mummy in a tie-dyed dress.
Tufts of black hair clung to her skull. Glassy eyes stared out
of her leathery face. Just looking at her made my skin crawl.
If you wanted to leave camp during the summer, it used
to be you had to come up here to get a quest. This summer,
that rule had been tossed. Campers left all the time on
1144
combat missions. We had no choice if we wanted to stop
Kronos.
Still, I remembered too well the strange green mist – the
spirit of the Oracle – that lived inside the mummy. She
looked lifeless now, but whenever she spoke a prophecy she
moved. Sometimes fog gushed out of her mouth and
created strange shapes. Once, she’d even left the attic and
taken a little zombie stroll into the woods to deliver a
message. I wasn’t sure what she’d do for the ‘Great
Prophecy’. I half expected her to start tap dancing or
something.
But she just sat there like she was dead – which she was.
‘I never understood this,’ I whispered.
‘What?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Why it’s a mummy.’
‘Percy, she wasn’t always a mummy. For thousands of
years the spirit of the Oracle lived inside a beautiful maiden.
The spirit would be passed on from generation to
generation. Chiron told me she was like that ﬁfty years ago.’
Annabeth pointed at the mummy. ‘But she was the last.’
‘What happened?’
Annabeth stared to say something then apparently
changed her mind. ‘Let’s just do our job and get out of
here.’
I looked nervously at the Oracle’s withered face. ‘So what
now?’
Annabeth approached the mummy and held out her
palms. ‘O Oracle, the time is at hand. I ask for the Great
Prophecy.’
I braced myself, but the mummy didn’t move. Instead,
Annabeth approached and unclasped one of its necklaces.
I’d never paid too much attention to its jewellery before. I
ﬁgured it was just hippie love beads and stuﬀ. But when
Annabeth turned towards me, she was holding a leather
pouch – like a Native American medicine pouch – on a cord
1145
braided with feathers. She opened the bag and took out a
roll of parchment no bigger than her pinky.
‘No way,’ I said. ‘You mean all these years I’ve been
asking about this stupid prophecy, and it’s been right there
around her neck?’
‘The time wasn’t right,’ Annabeth said. ‘Believe me, Percy,
I read this when I was ten years old, and I still have
nightmares about it.’
‘Great,’ I said. ‘Can I read it now?’
‘Downstairs at the war council,’ Annabeth said. ‘Not in
front of … you know.’
I looked at the glassy eyes of the Oracle, and I decided not
to argue. We headed downstairs to join the others. I didn’t
know it then, but it would be the last time I ever visited the
attic.
The senior counsellors had gathered around the ping-pong
table. Don’t ask me why, but the rec room had become the
camp’s informal headquarters for war councils. When
Annabeth, Chiron and I came in, though, it looked more like
a shouting match.
Clarisse was still in full battle gear. Her electric spear was
strapped to her back. (Actually her second electric spear,
since I’d broken the ﬁrst one. She called the spear ‘Maimer’.
Behind her back, everybody else called it ‘Lamer’.) She had
her boar-shaped helmet under one arm and a knife at her
belt.
She was in the midst of yelling at Michael Yew, the new
head counsellor for Apollo, which looked kind of funny since
Clarisse was so much taller. Michael had taken over the
Apollo cabin after Lee Fletcher died in battle last summer.
Michael stood a little over a metre tall with another half
metre of attitude. He reminded me of a ferret, with a pointy
nose and scrunched-up features – either because he
scowled so much or because he spent too much time
looking down the shaft of an arrow.
1146
‘It’s our loot!’ he yelled, standing on his tiptoes so he
could get in Clarisse’s face. ‘If you don’t like it, you can kiss
my quiver!’
Around the table, people were trying not to laugh – the
Stoll brothers, Pollux from the Dionysus cabin, Katie Gardner
from Demeter. Even Jake Mason, the hastily appointed new
counsellor from Hephaestus, managed a faint smile. Only
Silena Beauregard didn’t pay any attention. She sat beside
Clarisse and stared vacantly at the ping-pong net. Her eyes
were red and puﬀy. A cup of hot chocolate sat untouched in
front of her. It seemed unfair that she had to be here. I
couldn’t believe Clarisse and Michael standing over her,
arguing about something as stupid as loot when she’d just
lost Beckendorf.
‘STOP IT!’ I yelled. ‘What are you guys doing?’
Clarisse glowered at me. ‘Tell Michael not to be a selﬁsh
jerk.’
‘Oh, that’s perfect, coming from you,’ Michael said.
‘The only reason I’m here is to support Silena!’ Clarisse
shouted. ‘Otherwise I’d be back in my cabin.’
‘What are you talking about?’ I demanded.
Pollux cleared his throat. ‘Clarisse has refused to speak to
any us, until her, um, issue is resolved. She hasn’t spoken
for three days.’
‘It’s been wonderful,’ Travis Stoll said wistfully.
‘What issue?’ I asked.
Clarisse turned to Chiron. ‘You’re in charge, right? Does
my cabin get what we want or not?’
Chiron shuﬄed his hooves. ‘My dear, as I’ve already
explained, Michael is correct. Apollo’s cabin has the best
claim. Besides, we have more important matters –’
‘Sure,’ Clarisse snapped. ‘Always more important matters
than what Ares needs. We’re just supposed to show up and
ﬁght when you need us and not complain!’
‘That would be nice,’ Connor Stoll muttered.
Clarisse gripped her knife. ‘Maybe I should ask Mr D –’
1147
‘As you know,’ Chiron interrupted, his tone slightly angry
now, ‘our director Dionysus is busy with the war. He can’t be
bothered with this.’
‘I see,’ Clarisse said. ‘And the senior counsellors? Are any
of you going to side with me?’
Nobody was smiling now. None of them met Clarisse’s
eyes.
‘Fine.’ Clarisse turned to Silena. ‘I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to
get into this when you’ve just lost … anyway, I apologize. To
you. Nobody else.’
Silena didn’t seem to register her words.
Clarisse threw her knife on the ping-pong table. ‘All of you
can ﬁght this war without Ares. Until I get satisfaction, no
one in my cabin is lifting a ﬁnger to help. Have fun dying.’
The counsellors were all too stunned to say anything as
Clarisse stormed out of the room.
Finally Michael Yew said, ‘Good riddance.’
‘Are you kidding?’ Katie Gardner protested. ‘This is a
disaster!’
‘She can’t be serious,’ Travis said. ‘Can she?’
Chiron sighed. ‘Her pride has been wounded. She’ll calm
down eventually.’ But he didn’t sound convinced.
I wanted to ask what the heck Clarisse was so mad about,
but I looked at Annabeth and she mouthed the words, I’ll tell
you later.
‘Now,’ Chiron continued, ‘if you please, counsellors. Percy
has brought something I think you should hear. Percy – the
Great Prophecy.’
Annabeth handed me the parchment. It felt dry and old,
and my ﬁngers fumbled with the string. I uncurled the
paper, trying not to rip it, and began to read:
 
‘A half-blood of the eldest dogs …’
 
‘Er, Percy?’ Annabeth interrupted. ‘That’s gods. Not dogs.’
1148
‘Oh, right,’ I said. Being dyslexic is one mark of a
demigod, but sometimes I really hate it. The more nervous I
am, the worse my reading gets.
 
‘A half-blood of the eldest gods
Shall reach sixteen against all odds …’
 
I hesitated, staring at the next lines. A cold feeling started in
my ﬁngers as if the paper were freezing.
 
‘And see the world in endless sleep,
The hero’s soul, cursed blade shall reap.’
 
Suddenly Riptide seemed heavier in my pocket. A cursed
blade? Chiron once told me Riptide had brought many
people sorrow. Was it possible my own sword could get me
killed? And how could the world fall into endless sleep,
unless that meant death?
‘Percy,’ Chiron urged. ‘Read the rest.’
My mouth felt like it was full of sand, but I spoke the last
two lines.
 
‘A single choice shall … shall end his days.
Olympus to per – pursue –’
 
‘Preserve,’ Annabeth said gently. ‘It means “to save”.’
‘I know what it means,’ I grumbled.
 
‘Olympus to preserve or raze.’
 
The room was silent. Finally Connor Stoll said, ‘Raise is
good, isn’t it?’
‘Not raise,’ Silena said. Her voice was hollow, but I was
startled to hear her speak at all. ‘R-a-z-e means “destroy”.’
‘Obliterate,’ Annabeth said. ‘Annihilate. Turn to rubble.’
1149
‘Got it.’ My heart felt like lead. ‘Thanks.’
Everybody was looking at me – with concern, or pity, or
maybe a little fear.
Chiron closed his eyes as if he were saying a prayer. In
horse form, his head almost brushed the lights in the rec
room. ‘You see now, Percy, why we thought it best not to tell
you the whole prophecy. You’ve had enough on your
shoulders –’
‘Without realizing I was going to die in the end anyway?’ I
said. ‘Yeah, I get it.’
Chiron gazed at me sadly. The guy was three thousand
years old. He’d seen hundreds of heroes die. He might not
like it, but he was used to it. He probably knew better than
to try reassuring me.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said. ‘You know prophecies always have
double meanings. It might not literally mean you die.’
‘Sure,’ I said. ‘A single choice shall end his days. That has
tons of meanings, right?’
‘Maybe we can stop it,’ Jake Mason oﬀered. ‘The hero’s
soul, cursed blade shall reap. Maybe we could ﬁnd this
cursed blade and destroy it. Sounds like Kronos’s scythe,
right?’
I hadn’t thought about that, but it didn’t matter if the
cursed blade was Riptide or Kronos’s scythe. Either way, I
doubted we could stop the prophecy. A blade was supposed
to reap my soul. As a general rule, I preferred not to have
my soul reaped.
‘Perhaps we should let Percy think about these lines,’
Chiron said. ‘He needs time –’
‘No.’ I folded up the prophecy and shoved it in my pocket.
I felt deﬁant and angry, though I wasn’t sure who I was
angry with. ‘I don’t need time. If I die, I die. I can’t worry
about that, right?’
Annabeth’s hands were shaking a little. She wouldn’t
meet my eyes.
1150
‘Let’s move on,’ I said. ‘We’ve got other problems. We’ve
got a spy.’
Michael Yew scowled. ‘A spy?’
I told them what had happened on the Princess
Andromeda – how Kronos had known we were coming, how
he’d shown me the silver scythe pendant he’d used to
communicate with someone at camp.
Silena started to cry again and Annabeth put her arm
around her shoulders.
‘Well,’ Connor Stoll said uncomfortably, ‘we’ve suspected
there might be a spy for years, right? Somebody kept
passing information to Luke – like the location of the Golden
Fleece a couple of years ago. It must be somebody who
knew him well.’
He glanced at Annabeth. She’d known Luke better than
anyone, of course, but Connor looked away quickly. ‘Um, I
mean, it could be anybody.’
‘Yes.’ Katie Gardner frowned at the Stoll brothers. She’d
disliked them ever since they’d decorated the grass roof of
the Demeter cabin with chocolate Easter bunnies. ‘Like one
of Luke’s siblings.’
Travis and Connor both started arguing with her.
‘Stop!’ Silena banged the table so hard her hot chocolate
spilled. ‘Charlie’s dead and  … and you’re all arguing like
little kids!’ She put her head down and began to sob.
Hot chocolate trickled oﬀ the ping-pong table. Everybody
looked ashamed.
‘She’s right,’ Pollux said at last. ‘Accusing each other
doesn’t help. We need to keep our eyes open for a silver
necklace with a scythe charm. If Kronos had one, the spy
probably does too.’
Michael Yew grunted. ‘We need to ﬁnd this spy before we
plan our next operation. Blowing up the Princess Andromeda
won’t stop Kronos forever.’
‘No, indeed,’ Chiron said. ‘In fact his next assault is
already on the way.’
1151
I scowled. ‘You mean the “bigger threat” Poseidon
mentioned?’
He and Annabeth looked at each other like: It’s time. Did I
mention I hate it when they do that?
‘Percy,’ Chiron said, ‘we didn’t want to tell you until you
returned to camp. You needed a break with your … mortal
friends.’
Annabeth blushed. It dawned on me that she knew I’d
been hanging out with Rachel, and I felt guilty. Then I felt
angry that I felt guilty. I was allowed to have friends outside
camp, right? It wasn’t like …
‘Tell me what’s happened,’ I said.
Chiron picked up a bronze goblet from the snack table. He
tossed water onto the hot plate where we usually melted
nacho cheese. Steam billowed up, making a rainbow in the
ﬂuorescent lights. Chiron ﬁshed a golden drachma out of his
pouch, tossed it through the mist and muttered, ‘O Iris,
Goddess of the Rainbow, show us the threat.’
The mist shimmered. I saw the familiar image of a
smouldering volcano – Mount St Helens. As I watched, the
side of the mountain exploded. Fire, ash and lava rolled out.
A newscaster’s voice was saying: – even larger than last
year’s eruption, and geologists warn that the mountain may
not be done.
I knew all about last year’s eruption. I’d caused it. But this
explosion was much worse. The mountain tore itself apart,
collapsing inward, and an enormous form rose out of the
smoke and lava like it was emerging from a manhole cover. I
hoped the Mist would keep the humans from seeing it
clearly, because what I saw would’ve caused panic and riots
across the entire United States.
The giant was bigger than anything I’d ever encountered.
Even my demigod eyes couldn’t make out its exact form
through the ash and ﬁre, but it was vaguely humanoid and
so huge it could’ve used the Chrysler Building as a baseball
1152
bat. The mountain shook with a horrible rumbling, as if the
monster were laughing.
‘It’s him,’ I said. ‘Typhon.’
I was seriously hoping Chiron would say something good,
like No, that’s our huge friend Leroy! He’s going to help us!
But no such luck. He simply nodded. ‘The most horrible
monster of all, the biggest single threat the gods ever faced.
He has been freed from under the mountain at last. But this
scene is from two days ago. Here is what is happening
today.’
Chiron waved his hand and the image changed. I saw a
bank of storm clouds rolling across the Midwest plains.
Lightning ﬂickered. Lines of tornadoes destroyed everything
in their path – ripping up houses and trailers, tossing cars
around like Matchbox toys.
Monumental ﬂoods, an announcer was saying. Five states
declared disaster areas as the freak storm system sweeps
east, continuing its path of destruction. The cameras
zoomed in on a column of storm bearing down on some
Midwest city. I couldn’t tell which one. Inside the storm I
could see the giant – just small glimpses of his true form: a
smoky arm, a dark clawed hand the size of a city block. His
angry roar rolled across the plains like a nuclear blast. Other
smaller forms darted through the clouds, circling the
monster. I saw ﬂashes of light, and I realized the giant was
trying to swat them. I squinted and thought I saw a golden
chariot ﬂying into the blackness. Then some kind of huge
bird – a monstrous owl – dived in to attack the giant.
‘Are those … the gods?’ I said.
‘Yes, Percy,’ Chiron said. ‘They have been ﬁghting him for
days now, trying to slow him down. But Typhon is marching
forward – towards New York. Towards Olympus.’
I let that sink in. ‘How long until he gets here?’
‘Unless the gods can stop him? Perhaps ﬁve days. Most of
the Olympians are there  … except your father, who has a
war of his own to ﬁght.’
1153
‘But then who’s guarding Olympus?’
Connor Stoll shook his head. ‘If Typhon gets to New York, it
won’t matter who’s guarding Olympus.’
I thought about Kronos’s words on the ship: I would love to
see the terror in your eyes when you realize how I will
destroy Olympus.
Was this what he was talking about: an attack by Typhon?
It sure was terrifying enough. But Kronos was always fooling
us, misdirecting our attention. This seemed too obvious for
him. And in my dream the golden Titan had talked about
several more challenges to come, like Typhon was only the
ﬁrst.
‘It’s a trick,’ I said. ‘We have to warn the gods. Something
else is going to happen.’
Chiron looked at me gravely. ‘Something worse than
Typhon? I hope not.’
‘We have to defend Olympus,’ I insisted. ‘Kronos has
another attack planned.’
‘He did,’ Travis Stoll reminded me. ‘But you sank his ship.’
Everyone was looking at me. They wanted some good
news. They wanted to believe that at least I’d given them a
little bit of hope.
I glanced at Annabeth. I could tell we were thinking the
same thing: what if the Princess Andromeda was a ploy?
What if Kronos let us blow up that ship so we’d lower our
guard?
But I wasn’t going to say that in front of Silena. Her
boyfriend had sacriﬁced himself for that mission.
‘Maybe you’re right,’ I said, though I didn’t believe a word
of it.
I tried to imagine how things could get much worse. The
gods were in the Midwest ﬁghting a huge monster that had
almost defeated them once before. Poseidon was under
siege and losing a war against the sea Titan Oceanus.
Kronos was still out there somewhere. Olympus was virtually
1154
undefended. The demigods of Camp Half-Blood were on our
own with a spy in our midst.
Oh, and according to the ancient prophecy, I was going to
die when I turned sixteen – which happened to be in ﬁve
days, the exact same time Typhon was supposed to hit New
York. Almost forgot that.
‘Well,’ Chiron said, ‘I think that’s enough for one night.’
He waved his hand and the steam dissipated. The stormy
battle of Typhon and the gods disappeared.
‘That’s an understatement,’ I muttered.
And the war council adjourned.
1155
4    We Burn a Metal Shroud
 
I dreamed Rachel Elizabeth Dare was throwing darts at my
picture.
She was standing in her room … Okay, back up. I have to
explain that Rachel doesn’t have a room. She has the top
ﬂoor of her family’s mansion, which is a renovated
brownstone in Brooklyn. Her ‘room’ is a huge loft with
industrial lighting and ﬂoor-to-ceiling windows. It’s about
twice as big as my mom’s apartment.
Some alt rock was blaring from her paint-covered Bose
docking system. As far as I could tell, Rachel’s only rule
about music was that no two songs on her iPod could sound
the same, and they all had to be strange.
She wore a kimono and her hair was frizzy like she’d been
sleeping. Her bed was messed up. Sheets hung over a
bunch of artist’s easels. Dirty clothes and old energy-bar
wrappers were strewn around the ﬂoor, but when you’ve got
a room that big, the mess doesn’t look so bad. Out of the
windows you could see the entire night-time skyline of
Manhattan.
The picture she was attacking was a painting of me
standing over the giant Antaeus. Rachel had painted it a
couple of months ago. My expression in the picture was
ﬁerce – disturbing, even – so it was hard to tell if I was the
good guy or the bad guy, but Rachel said I’d looked just like
that after the battle.
‘Demigods,’ Rachel muttered as she threw another dart at
the canvas. ‘And their stupid quests.’
1156
Most of the darts bounced oﬀ, but a few stuck. One hung
oﬀ my chin like a goatee.
Someone pounded on her bedroom door.
‘Rachel!’ a man shouted. ‘What in the world are you
doing? Turn oﬀ that –’
Rachel scooped up her remote control and shut oﬀ the
music. ‘Come in!’
Her dad walked in, scowling and blinking from the light.
He had rust-coloured hair a little darker than Rachel’s. It was
smushed on one side like he’d lost a ﬁght with his pillow. His
blue silk pyjamas had ‘WD’ monogrammed on the pocket.
Seriously, who has monogrammed pyjamas?
‘What is going on?’ he demanded. ‘It’s three in the
morning.’
‘Couldn’t sleep,’ Rachel said.
On the painting, a dart fell oﬀ my face. Rachel hid the rest
of the darts behind her back, but Mr Dare noticed.
‘So  … I take it your friend isn’t coming to St Thomas?’
That’s what Mr Dare called me. Never Percy. Just your friend.
Or young man if he was talking to me, which he rarely did.
Rachel knitted her eyebrows. ‘I don’t know.’
‘We leave in the morning,’ her dad said. ‘If he hasn’t made
up his mind yet –’
‘He’s probably not coming,’ Rachel said miserably.
‘Happy?’
Mr Dare put his hands behind his back. He paced the room
with a stern expression. I imagined he did that in the
boardroom of his land-development company and made his
employees nervous.
‘Are you still having bad dreams?’ he asked. ‘Headaches?’
Rachel threw her darts on the ﬂoor. ‘I should never have
told you about that.’
‘I’m your father,’ he said. ‘I’m worried about you.’
‘Worried about the family’s reputation,’ Rachel muttered.
Her father didn’t react – maybe because he’d heard that
comment before, or maybe because it was true.
1157
‘We could call Dr Arkwright,’ he suggested. ‘He helped you
get through the death of your hamster.’
‘I was six then,’ she said. ‘And no, Dad, I don’t need a
therapist. I just …’
She shook her head helplessly.
Her father stopped in front of the windows. He gazed at
the New York skyline as if he owned it – which wasn’t true.
He only owned part of it.
‘It will be good for you to get away,’ he decided. ‘You’ve
had some unhealthy inﬂuences.’
‘I’m not going to Clarion Ladies’ Academy,’ Rachel said.
‘And my friends are none of your business.’
Mr Dare smiled, but it wasn’t a warm smile. It was more
like, Some day you’ll realize how silly you sound.
‘Try to get some sleep,’ he urged. ‘We’ll be at the beach
by tomorrow night. It will be fun.’
‘Fun,’ Rachel repeated. ‘Lots of fun.’
Her father exited the room. He left the door open behind
him.
Rachel stared at the portrait of me. Then she walked to
the easel next to it, which was covered in a sheet.
‘I hope they’re dreams,’ she said.
She uncovered the easel. On it was a hasty charcoal
sketch, but Rachel was a good artist. The picture was
deﬁnitely Luke as a young boy. He was about nine years old,
with a wide grin and no scar on his face. I had no idea how
Rachel could’ve known what he looked like back then, but
the portrait was so good I had a feeling she wasn’t guessing.
From what I knew about Luke’s life (which wasn’t much) the
picture showed him just before he’d found out he was a half-
blood and had run away from home.
Rachel stared at the portrait. Then she uncovered the next
easel. This picture was even more disturbing. It showed the
Empire State Building with lightning all around it. In the
distance a dark storm was brewing, with a huge hand
coming out of the clouds. At the base of the building a
1158
crowd had gathered  … but it wasn’t a normal crowd of
tourists and pedestrians. I saw spears, javelins and banners
– the trappings of an army.
‘Percy,’ Rachel muttered as if she knew I was listening.
‘What is going on?’
The dream faded, and the last thing I remember was
wishing I could answer Rachel’s question.
The next morning, I wanted to call her, but there were no
phones at camp. Dionysus and Chiron didn’t need a
landline. They just called Olympus with an Iris-message
whenever they needed something. And when demigods use
cell phones, the signals agitate every monster within a
hundred miles. It’s like sending up a ﬂare: Here I am! Please
rearrange my face! Even within the safe borders of camp,
that’s not the kind of advertising we wanted to do.
Most demigods (except for Annabeth and a few others)
don’t even own cell phones. And I deﬁnitely couldn’t tell
Annabeth, ‘Hey, let me borrow your phone so I can call
Rachel!’ To make the call, I would’ve had to leave camp and
walk several miles to the nearest convenience store. Even if
Chiron let me go, by the time I got there, Rachel would’ve
been on the plane to St Thomas.
I ate a depressing breakfast by myself at the Poseidon
table. I kept staring at the ﬁssure in the marble ﬂoor, where
two years ago Nico had banished a bunch of bloodthirsty
skeletons to the Underworld. The memory didn’t exactly
improve my appetite.
After breakfast, Annabeth and I walked down to inspect the
cabins. Actually, it was Annabeth’s turn for inspection. My
morning chore was to sort through reports for Chiron. But
since we both hated our jobs, we decided to do them
together so it wouldn’t be so heinous.
We started at the Poseidon cabin, which was basically just
me. I’d made my bunk bed that morning (well, sort of) and
1159
straightened the Minotaur horn on the wall, so I gave myself
a four out of ﬁve.
Annabeth made a face. ‘You’re being generous.’ She used
the end of her pencil to pick up an old pair of running shorts.
I snatched them away. ‘Hey, give me a break. I don’t have
Tyson cleaning up after me this summer.’
‘Three out of ﬁve,’ Annabeth said. I knew better than to
argue, so we moved along.
I tried to skim through Chiron’s stack of reports as we
walked. There were messages from demigods, nature spirits
and satyrs all around the country, writing about the latest
monster activity. They were pretty depressing, and my
ADHD brain did not like concentrating on depressing stuﬀ.
Little battles were raging everywhere. Camp recruitment
was down to zero. Satyrs were having trouble ﬁnding new
demigods and bringing them to Half-Blood Hill because so
many monsters were roaming the country. Our friend Thalia,
who led the Hunters of Artemis, hadn’t been heard from in
months, and if Artemis knew what had happened to them,
she wasn’t sharing information.
We visited the Aphrodite cabin, which of course got a ﬁve
out of ﬁve. The beds were perfectly made. The clothes in
everyone’s footlocker were colour coordinated. Fresh ﬂowers
bloomed on the windowsills. I wanted to dock a point
because the whole place reeked of designer perfume, but
Annabeth ignored me.
‘Great job as usual, Silena,’ Annabeth said.
Silena nodded listlessly. The wall behind her bed was
decorated with pictures of Beckendorf. She sat on her bunk
with a box of chocolates on her lap, and I remembered that
her dad owned a chocolate store in the Village, which was
how he’d caught the attention of Aphrodite.
‘You want a bonbon?’ Silena asked. ‘My dad sent them. He
thought – he thought they might cheer me up.’
‘Are they any good?’ I asked.
She shook her head. ‘They taste like cardboard.’
1160
I didn’t have anything against cardboard, so I tried one.
Annabeth passed. We promised to see Silena later and kept
going.
As we crossed the commons area, a ﬁght broke out
between the Ares and Apollo cabins. Some Apollo campers
armed with ﬁre bombs ﬂew over the Ares cabin in a chariot
pulled by two pegasi. I’d never seen the chariot before, but
it looked like a pretty sweet ride. Soon, the roof of the Ares
cabin was burning, and naiads from the canoe lake rushed
over to blow water on it.
Then the Ares campers called down a curse and all the
Apollo kids’ arrows turned to rubber. The Apollo kids kept
shooting at the Ares kids but the arrows bounced oﬀ.
Two archers ran by, chased by an angry Ares kid who was
yelling in poetry: ‘Curse me, eh? I’ll make you pay!/I don’t
want to rhyme all day!’
Annabeth sighed. ‘Not that again. Last time Apollo cursed
a cabin, it took a week for the rhyming couplets to wear oﬀ.’
I shuddered. Apollo was god of poetry as well as archery,
and I’d heard him recite in person. I’d almost rather get shot
by an arrow.
‘What are they ﬁghting about anyway?’ I asked.
Annabeth ignored me while she scribbled on her
inspection scroll, giving both cabins a one out of ﬁve.
I found myself staring at her, which was stupid since I’d
seen her a billion times. She was about the same height as
me this summer, which was a relief. Still, she seemed so
much more mature. It was kind of intimidating. I mean sure,
she’d always been cute, but she was starting to be seriously
beautiful.
Finally she said, ‘That ﬂying chariot.’
‘What?’
‘You asked what they were ﬁghting about.’
‘Oh. Oh, right.’
‘They captured it in a raid in Philadelphia last week. Some
of Luke’s demigods were there with that ﬂying chariot. The
1161
Apollo cabin seized it during the battle, but Ares cabin led
the raid. So they’ve been ﬁghting about who gets it ever
since.’
We ducked as Michael Yew’s chariot dive-bombed an Ares
camper. The Ares camper tried to stab him and cuss him out
in rhyming couplets. He was pretty creative about rhyming
those cuss words.
‘We’re ﬁghting for our lives,’ I said, ‘and they’re bickering
about some stupid chariot.’
‘They’ll get over it,’ Annabeth said. ‘Clarisse will come to
her senses.’
I wasn’t so sure. That didn’t sound like the Clarisse I knew.
I scanned more reports and we inspected a few more
cabins. Demeter got a four. Hephaestus got a three and
probably should’ve gotten lower, but with Beckendorf being
gone and all, we cut them some slack. Hermes got a two,
which was no surprise. All campers who didn’t know their
godly parentage were shoved into the Hermes cabin, and
since the gods were kind of forgetful, that cabin was always
overcrowded.
Finally we got to Athena’s cabin, which was orderly and
clean as usual. Books were straightened on the shelves. The
armour was polished. Battle maps and blueprints decorated
the walls. Only Annabeth’s bunk was messy. It was covered
in papers and her silver laptop was still running.
‘Vlacas,’ Annabeth muttered, which was basically calling
herself an idiot in Greek.
Her second-in-command Malcolm suppressed a smile.
‘Yeah, um  … we cleaned everything else. Didn’t know if it
was safe to move your notes.’
That was probably smart. Annabeth had a bronze knife
that she reserved just for monsters and people who messed
with her stuﬀ.
Malcolm grinned at me. ‘We’ll wait outside while you ﬁnish
inspection.’ The Athena campers ﬁled out the door while
Annabeth cleaned up her bunk.
1162
I shuﬄed uneasily and pretended to go through some
more reports. Technically, even on inspection, it was against
camp rules for two campers of the opposite sex to be … like,
alone in a cabin.
That rule had come up a lot when Silena and Beckendorf
started dating. And I know some of you might be thinking:
aren’t all demigods related on the godly side, and doesn’t
that make dating gross? But the thing is, the godly side of
your family doesn’t count genetically speaking, since gods
don’t have DNA. A demigod would never think about dating
someone who had the same godly parent. Like two kids
from Athena cabin? No way. But a daughter of Aphrodite and
a son of Hephaestus? They’re not related. So it’s no
problem.
Anyway, for some strange reason I was thinking about this
as I watched Annabeth straighten up. She closed her laptop,
which she’d been given as a gift from the inventor Daedalus
last summer.
I cleared my throat. ‘So  … get any good info from that
thing?’
‘Too much,’ she said. ‘Daedalus had so many ideas I could
spend ﬁfty years just trying to ﬁgure them all out.’
‘Yeah,’ I muttered. ‘That would be fun.’
She shuﬄed her papers – mostly drawings of buildings
and a bunch of handwritten notes. I knew she wanted to be
an architect some day, but I’d learned the hard way not to
ask what she was working on. She’d start talking about
angles and load-bearing joints until my eyes glazed over.
‘You know  …’ She brushed her hair behind her ear, like
she does when she’s nervous. ‘This whole thing with
Beckendorf and Silena. It kind of makes you think. About …
what’s important. About losing people who are important.’
I nodded. My brain started seizing on little random details,
like the fact that she was still wearing those silver owl
earrings from her dad, who was this brainiac military history
professor in San Francisco.
1163
‘Um, yeah,’ I stammered. ‘Like … is everything cool with
your family?’
Okay, really stupid question but, hey, I was nervous.
Annabeth looked disappointed, but she nodded.
‘My dad wanted to take me to Greece this summer,’ she
said wistfully. ‘I’ve always wanted to see –’
‘The Parthenon,’ I remembered.
She managed a smile. ‘Yeah.’
‘That’s okay. There’ll be other summers, right?’
As soon as I said it, I realized it was a bone-headed
comment. I was facing the ‘end of my days’. Within a week,
Olympus might fall. If the Age of the Gods really did end, the
world as we knew it would dissolve into chaos. Demigods
would be hunted to extinction. There would be no more
summers for us.
Annabeth stared at her inspection scroll. ‘Three out of
ﬁve,’ she muttered, ‘for a sloppy head counsellor. Come on.
Let’s ﬁnish your reports and get back to Chiron.’
On the way to the Big House, we read the last report,
which was handwritten on a maple leaf from a satyr in
Canada. If possible, the note made me feel even worse.
‘Dear Grover,’ I read aloud. ‘Woods outside Toronto
attacked by giant evil badger. Tried to do as you suggested
and summon power of Pan. No eﬀect. Many naiads’ trees
destroyed. Retreating to Ottawa. Please advise. Where are
you? – Gleeson Hedge, protector.’
Annabeth grimaced. ‘You haven’t heard anything from
him? Even with your empathy link?’
I shook my head dejectedly.
Ever since last summer when the god Pan died, our friend
Grover had been drifting further and further away. The
Council of Cloven Elders treated him like an outcast, but
Grover still travelled all over the East Coast, trying to spread
the word about Pan and convince nature spirits to protect
their own little bits of the wild. He’d only come back to camp
a few times to see his girlfriend Juniper.
1164
Last I’d heard he was in Central Park, organizing the
dryads, but nobody had seen or heard from him in two
months. We’d tried to send Iris-messages. They never got
through. I had an empathy link with Grover, so I hoped I
would know if anything bad happened to him. Grover had
told me one time that if he died, the empathy link might kill
me too. But I wasn’t sure if that was still true or not.
I wondered if he was still in Manhattan. Then I thought
about my dream of Rachel’s sketch – dark clouds closing on
the city, an army gathered around the Empire State
Building.
‘Annabeth.’ I stopped her by the tetherball court. I knew I
was asking for trouble, but I didn’t know who else to trust.
Plus I’d always depended on Annabeth for advice. ‘Listen, I
had this dream about, um, Rachel …’
I told her the whole thing, even the weird picture of Luke
as a child.
For a while, she didn’t say anything. Then she rolled up
her inspection scroll so tight she ripped it. ‘What do you
want me to say?’
‘I’m not sure. You’re the best strategist I know. If you were
Kronos planning this war, what would you do next?’
‘I’d use Typhon as a distraction. Then I’d hit Olympus
directly, while the gods were in the west.’
‘Just like in Rachel’s picture.’
‘Percy,’ she said, her voice tight, ‘Rachel is just a mortal.’
‘But what if her dream is true? Those other Titans – they
said Olympus would be destroyed in a matter of days. They
said they had plenty of other challenges. And what’s with
that picture of Luke as a kid –’
‘We’ll just have to be ready.’
‘How?’ I said. ‘Look at our camp. We can’t even stop
ﬁghting each other. And I’m supposed to get my stupid soul
reaped.’
She threw down her scroll. ‘I knew we shouldn’t have
shown you the prophecy.’ Her voice was angry and hurt. ‘All
1165
it did was scare you. You run away from things when you’re
scared.’
I stared at her, completely stunned. ‘Me? Run away?’
She got right in my face. ‘Yes, you. You’re a coward, Percy
Jackson!’
We were nose to nose. Her eyes were red, and I suddenly
realized that when she called me a coward maybe she
wasn’t talking about the prophecy.
‘If you don’t like our chances,’ she said, ‘maybe you
should go on that vacation with Rachel.’
‘Annabeth –’
‘If you don’t like our company.’
‘That’s not fair!’
She pushed past me and stormed towards the strawberry
ﬁelds. She hit the tetherball as she passed and sent it
spinning angrily around the pole.
I’d like to say my day got better from there. Of course, it
didn’t.
That afternoon we had an assembly at the campﬁre to
burn Beckendorf’s burial shroud and say our goodbyes. Even
the Ares and Apollo cabins called a temporary truce to
attend.
Beckendorf’s shroud was made out of metal links like
chainmail. I didn’t see how it would burn, but the Fates
must’ve been helping out. The metal melted in the ﬁre and
turned to golden smoke that rose into the sky. The campﬁre
ﬂames always reﬂected the campers’ moods, and today
they burned black.
I hoped Beckendorf’s spirit would end up in Elysium.
Maybe he’d even choose to be reborn and try for Elysium in
three diﬀerent lifetimes so he could reach the Isles of the
Blest, which was like the Underworld’s ultimate party
headquarters. If anyone deserved it, Beckendorf did.
Annabeth left without a word to me. Most of the other
campers drifted oﬀ to their afternoon activities. I just stood
1166
there, staring at the dying ﬁre. Silena sat nearby crying
while Clarisse and her boyfriend Chris Rodriguez tried to
comfort her.
Finally I got up the nerve to walk over. ‘Hey, Silena, I’m
really sorry.’
She sniﬄed. Clarisse glared at me, but she always glares
at everyone. Chris would barely look at me. He’d been one
of Luke’s men until Clarisse rescued him from the Labyrinth
last summer, and I guess he still felt guilty about it.
I cleared my throat. ‘Silena, you know Beckendorf carried
your picture. He looked at it right before we went into battle.
You meant a lot to him. You made the last year the best of
his life.’
Silena sobbed.
‘Good work, Percy,’ Clarisse muttered.
‘No, it’s all right,’ Silena said. ‘Thank … thank you, Percy. I
should go.’
‘You want company?’ Clarisse asked.
Silena shook her head and ran oﬀ.
‘She’s stronger than she looks,’ Clarisse muttered, almost
to herself. ‘She’ll survive.’
‘You could help with that,’ I suggested. ‘You could honour
Beckendorf’s memory by ﬁghting with us.’
Clarisse went for her knife, but it wasn’t there any more.
She’d thrown it on the ping-pong table in the Big House.
‘Not my problem,’ she growled. ‘My cabin doesn’t get
honour – I don’t ﬁght.’
I noticed she wasn’t speaking in rhymes. Maybe she
hadn’t been around when her cabinmates got cursed, or
maybe she had a way of breaking the spell. With a chill, I
wondered if Clarisse could be Kronos’s spy at camp. Was
that why she was keeping her cabin out of the ﬁght? But, as
much as I disliked Clarisse, spying for Titans didn’t seem like
her style.
‘All right,’ I told her. ‘I didn’t want to bring this up, but you
owe me one. You’d be rotting in a Cyclops’s cave in the Sea
1167
of Monsters if it weren’t for me.’
She clenched her jaw. ‘Any other favour, Percy. Not this.
The Ares cabin has been dissed too many times. And don’t
think I don’t know what people say about me behind my
back.’
I wanted to say, Well, it’s true. But I bit my tongue.
‘So what – you’re just going to let Kronos crush us?’ I
asked.
‘If you want my help so much, tell Apollo to give us the
chariot.’
‘You’re such a big baby.’
She charged me but Chris got between us. ‘Whoa, guys,’
he said. ‘Clarisse, you know, maybe he’s got a point.’
She sneered at him. ‘Not you too!’
She trudged oﬀ with Chris at her heels. ‘Hey, wait! I just
meant – Clarisse, wait!’
I watched the last sparks from Beckendorf’s ﬁre curl into
the afternoon sky. Then I headed towards the sword-ﬁghting
arena. I needed a break, and I wanted to see an old friend.
1168
5    I Drive My Dog Into a Tree
 
Mrs O’Leary saw me before I saw her, which was a pretty
good trick considering she’s the size of a garbage truck. I
walked into the arena and a wall of darkness slammed into
me.
‘WOOF!’
The next thing I knew I was ﬂat on the ground with a huge
paw on my chest and an oversized Brillo-pad tongue licking
my face.
‘Ow!’ I said. ‘Hey, girl. Good to see you, too. Ow!’
It took a few minutes for Mrs O’Leary to calm down and
get oﬀ me. By then I was pretty much drenched in dog
drool. She wanted to play fetch, so I picked up a bronze
shield and tossed it across the arena.
By the way, Mrs O’Leary is the world’s only friendly
hellhound. I kind of inherited her when her previous owner
died. She lived at camp, but Beckendorf … well, Beckendorf
used to take care of her whenever I was gone. He had
smelted Mrs O’Leary’s favourite bronze chewing bone. He’d
forged her collar with the little smiley face and crossbones
nametag. Beckendorf had been her best friend next to me.
Thinking about that made me sad all over again, but I
threw the shield a few more times because Mrs O’Leary
insisted.
Soon she started barking – a sound slightly louder than an
artillery gun – like she needed to go for a walk. The other
campers didn’t think it was funny when she went to the
bathroom in the arena. It had caused more than one
1169
unfortunate slip-and-slide accident. So I opened the gates of
the arena and she bounded straight towards the woods.
I jogged after her, not too concerned that she was getting
ahead. Nothing in the woods could threaten Mrs O’Leary.
Even the dragons and giant scorpions ran away when she
came close.
When I ﬁnally tracked her down, she wasn’t using the
facilities. She was in a familiar clearing where the Council of
Cloven Elders had once put Grover on trial. The place didn’t
look so good. The grass had turned yellow. The three topiary
thrones had lost all their leaves. But that’s not what
surprised me. In the middle of the glade stood the weirdest
trio I’d ever seen: Juniper the tree nymph, Nico di Angelo
and a very old, very fat satyr.
Nico was the only one who didn’t seem freaked out by Mrs
O’Leary’s appearance. He looked pretty much like I’d seen
him in my dream – an aviator’s jacket, black jeans and a T-
shirt with dancing skeletons on it like one of those Day of
the Dead pictures. His Stygian-iron sword hung at his side.
He was only twelve, though he looked much older and
sadder.
He nodded when he saw me, then went back to scratching
Mrs O’Leary’s ears. She sniﬀed his legs like he was the most
interesting thing since rib-eye steaks. Being the son of
Hades, he’d probably been travelling in all sorts of
hellhound-friendly places.
The old satyr didn’t look nearly so happy. ‘Will someone –
what is this Underworld creature doing in my forest!’ He
waved his arms and trotted on his hooves like the grass was
hot. ‘You there, Percy Jackson! Is this your beast?’
‘Sorry, Leneus,’ I said. ‘That’s your name, right?’
The satyr rolled his eyes. His fur was dust-bunny grey and
a spider web grew between his horns. His belly would’ve
made him an invincible bumper car. ‘Well, of course I’m
Leneus. Don’t tell me you’ve forgotten a member of the
council so quickly. Now call oﬀ your beast!’
1170
‘WOOF!’ Mrs O’Leary said happily.
The old satyr gulped. ‘Make it go away! Juniper, I will not
help you under these circumstances!’
Juniper turned towards me. She was pretty in a dryady
way, with her purple gossamer dress and her elﬁsh face, but
her eyes were green-tinted with chlorophyll from crying.
‘Percy,’ she sniﬄed. ‘I was just asking about Grover. I
know something’s happened. He wouldn’t stay gone this
long if he wasn’t in trouble. I was hoping that Leneus –’
‘I told you!’ the satyr protested. ‘You are better oﬀ without
that traitor.’
Juniper stamped her foot. ‘He is not a traitor! He’s the
bravest satyr ever and I want to know where he is!’
‘WOOF!’
Leneus’s knees started knocking. ‘I – I won’t answer
questions with this hellhound sniﬃng my tail!’
Nico looked like he was trying not to crack up. ‘I’ll walk the
dog,’ he volunteered.
He whistled and Mrs O’Leary bounded after him to the far
end of the grove.
Leneus huﬀed indignantly and brushed the twigs oﬀ his
shirt. ‘Now, as I was trying to explain, young lady, your
boyfriend has not sent any reports since we voted him into
exile.’
‘You tried to vote him into exile,’ I corrected. ‘Chiron and
Dionysus stopped you.’
‘Bah! They are honorary council members. It wasn’t a
proper vote.’
‘I’ll tell Dionysus you said that.’
Leneus paled. ‘I only meant – Now see here, Jackson. This
is none of your business.’
‘Grover’s my friend,’ I said. ‘He wasn’t lying to you about
Pan’s death. I saw it myself. You were just too scared to
accept the truth.’
Leneus’s lips quivered. ‘No! Grover’s a liar and good
riddance. We’re better oﬀ without him.’
1171
I pointed at the withered thrones. ‘If things are going so
well, where are your friends? Looks like your council hasn’t
been meeting lately.’
‘Maron and Silenus … I – I’m sure they’ll be back,’ he said,
but I could hear the panic in his voice. ‘They’re just taking
some time oﬀ to think. It’s been a very unsettling year.’
‘It’s going to get a lot more unsettling,’ I promised.
‘Leneus, we need Grover. There’s got to be a way you can
ﬁnd him with your magic.’
The old satyr’s eye twitched. ‘I’m telling you I’ve heard
nothing. Perhaps he’s dead.’
Juniper choked back a sob.
‘He’s not dead,’ I said. ‘I can feel that much.’
‘Empathy links,’ Leneus said disdainfully. ‘Very unreliable.’
‘So ask around,’ I insisted. ‘Find him. There’s a war
coming. Grover was preparing the nature spirits.’
‘Without my permission! And it’s not our war.’
I grabbed him by the shirt, which seriously wasn’t like me,
but the stupid old goat was making me mad. ‘Listen,
Leneus. When Kronos attacks, he’s going to have packs of
hellhounds. He’s going to destroy everything in his path –
mortals, gods, demigods. Do you think he’ll let the satyrs go
free? You’re supposed to be a leader. So LEAD. Get out there
and see what’s happening. Find Grover and bring Juniper
some news. Now GO!’
I didn’t push him very hard, but he was kind of top-heavy.
He fell on his furry rump, then scrambled to his hooves and
ran away with his belly jiggling. ‘Grover will never be
accepted! He will die an outcast!’
When he’d disappeared into the bushes, Juniper wiped her
eyes. ‘I’m sorry, Percy. I didn’t mean to get you involved.
Leneus is still a Lord of the Wild. You don’t want to make an
enemy of him.’
‘No problem,’ I said. ‘I’ve got worse enemies than
overweight satyrs.’
1172
Nico walked back to us. ‘Good job, Percy. Judging from the
trail of goat pellets, I’d say you shook him up pretty well.’
I was afraid I knew why Nico was here, but I tried for a
smile. ‘Welcome back. Did you come by just to see Juniper?’
He blushed. ‘Um, no. That was an accident. I kind of  …
dropped into the middle of their conversation.’
‘He scared us to death!’ Juniper said. ‘Right out of the
shadows. But, Nico, you are the son of Hades and all. Are
you sure you haven’t heard anything about Grover?’
Nico shifted his weight. ‘Juniper, like I tried to tell you …
even if Grover died, he would reincarnate into something
else in nature. I can’t sense things like that, only mortal
souls.’
‘But if you do hear anything?’ she pleaded, putting her
hand on his arm. ‘Anything at all?’
Nico’s cheeks got even brighter red. ‘Uh, you bet. I’ll keep
my ears open.’
‘We’ll ﬁnd him, Juniper,’ I promised. ‘Grover’s alive, I’m
sure. There must be a simple reason why he hasn’t
contacted us.’
She nodded glumly. ‘I hate not being able to leave the
forest. He could be anywhere, and I’m stuck here waiting.
Oh, if that silly goat has got himself hurt –’
Mrs O’Leary bounded back over and took an interest in
Juniper’s dress.
Juniper yelped. ‘Oh, no you don’t! I know about dogs and
trees – I’m gone!’
She went poof into green mist. Mrs O’Leary looked
disappointed, but she lumbered oﬀ to ﬁnd another target,
leaving Nico and me alone.
Nico tapped his sword on the ground. A tiny mound of
animal 
bones 
erupted 
from 
the 
dirt. 
They 
knitted
themselves together into a skeletal ﬁeld mouse and
scampered oﬀ. ‘I was sorry to hear about Beckendorf.’
A lump formed in my throat. ‘How did you –’
‘I talked to his ghost.’
1173
‘Oh  … right.’ I’d never get used to the fact that this
twelve-year-old kid spent more time talking with the dead
than the living. ‘Did he say anything?’
‘He doesn’t blame you. He ﬁgured you’d be beating
yourself up, and he said you shouldn’t.’
‘Is he going to try for rebirth?’
Nico shook his head. ‘He’s staying in Elysium. Said he’s
waiting for someone. Not sure what he meant, but he seems
okay with death.’
It wasn’t much comfort, but it was something.
‘I had a vision you were on Mount Tam,’ I told Nico. ‘Was
that –’
‘Real,’ he said. ‘I didn’t mean to be spying on the Titans,
but I was in the neighbourhood.’
‘Doing what?’
Nico tugged at his sword belt. ‘Following a lead on … you
know, my family.’
I nodded. I knew his past was a painful subject. Until two
years ago, he and his sister Bianca had been frozen in time
at a place called the Lotus Casino. They’d been there for like
seventy years. Eventually a mysterious lawyer rescued
them and checked them into a boarding school, but Nico
had no memories of his life before the casino. He didn’t
know anything about his mother. He didn’t know who the
lawyer was, or why they’d been frozen in time or allowed to
go free. After Bianca died and left Nico alone, he’d been
obsessed with ﬁnding answers.
‘So how did it go?’ I asked. ‘Any luck?’
‘No,’ he murmured. ‘But I may have a new lead soon.’
‘What’s the lead?’
Nico chewed his lip. ‘That’s not important right now. You
know why I’m here.’
A feeling of dread started to build in my chest. Ever since
Nico ﬁrst proposed his plan for beating Kronos last summer,
I’d had nightmares about it. He would show up occasionally
and press me for an answer, but I kept putting him oﬀ.
1174
‘Nico, I don’t know,’ I said. ‘It seems pretty extreme.’
‘You’ve got Typhon coming in what … a week? Most of the
other Titans are unleashed now and on Kronos’s side. Maybe
it’s time to think extreme.’
I looked back towards the camp. Even from this distance, I
could hear the Ares and Apollo campers ﬁghting again,
yelling curses and spouting bad poetry.
‘They’re no match for the Titan army,’ Nico said. ‘You
know that. This comes down to you and Luke. And there’s
only one way you can beat Luke.’
I remembered the ﬁght on the Princess Andromeda. I’d
been hopelessly outmatched. Kronos had almost killed me
with a single cut to my arm, and I couldn’t even wound him.
Riptide had glanced right oﬀ his skin.
‘We can give you the same power,’ Nico urged. ‘You heard
the Great Prophecy. Unless you want to have your soul
reaped by a cursed blade …’
I wondered how Nico had heard the prophecy – probably
from some ghost.
‘You can’t prevent a prophecy,’ I said.
‘But you can ﬁght it.’ Nico had a strange, hungry light in
his eyes. ‘You can become invincible.’
‘Maybe we should wait. Try to ﬁght without –’
‘No!’ Nico snarled. ‘It has to be now!’
I stared at him. I hadn’t seen his temper ﬂare like that in a
long time. ‘Um, you sure you’re okay?’
He took a deep breath. ‘Percy, all I mean  … when the
ﬁghting starts, we won’t be able to make the journey. This is
our last chance. I’m sorry if I’m being too pushy, but two
years ago my sister gave her life to protect you. I want you
to honour that. Do whatever it takes to stay alive and defeat
Kronos.’
I didn’t like the idea. Then I thought about Annabeth
calling me a coward, and I got angry.
Nico had a point. If Kronos attacked New York, the
campers would be no match for his forces. I had to do
1175
something. Nico’s way was dangerous – maybe even deadly.
But it might give me a ﬁghting edge.
‘All right,’ I decided. ‘What do we do ﬁrst?’
His cold, creepy smile made me sorry I’d agreed. ‘First
we’ll need to retrace Luke’s steps. We need to know more
about his past, his childhood.’
I shuddered, thinking about Rachel’s picture from my
dream – a smiling nine-year-old Luke. ‘Why do we need to
know about that?’
‘I’ll explain when we get there,’ Nico said. ‘I’ve already
tracked down his mother. She lives in Connecticut.’
I stared at him. I’d never thought much about Luke’s
mortal parent. I’d met his dad, Hermes, but his mom …
‘Luke ran away when he was really young,’ I said. ‘I didn’t
think his mom was alive.’
‘Oh, she’s alive.’ The way he said it made me wonder
what was wrong with her. What kind of horrible person could
she be?
‘Okay …’ I said. ‘So how do we get to Connecticut? I can
call Blackjack –’
‘No.’ Nico scowled. ‘Pegasi don’t like me, and the feeling is
mutual. But there’s no need for ﬂying.’ He whistled, and Mrs
O’Leary came loping out of the woods.
‘Your friend here can help.’ Nico patted her head. ‘You
haven’t tried shadow-travel yet?’
‘Shadow-travel?’
Nico whispered in Mrs O’Leary’s ear. She tilted her head,
suddenly alert.
‘Hop on board,’ Nico told me.
I’d never considered riding a dog before, but Mrs O’Leary
was certainly big enough. I climbed onto her back and held
her collar.
‘This will make her very tired,’ Nico warned, ‘so you can’t
do it often. And it works best at night. But all shadows are
part of the same substance. There is only one darkness, and
creatures of the Underworld can use it as a road, or a door.’
1176
‘I don’t understand,’ I said.
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘It took me a long time to learn. But Mrs
O’Leary knows. Tell her where to go. Tell her Westport, the
home of May Castellan.’
‘You’re not coming?’
‘Don’t worry,’ he said. ‘I’ll meet you there.’
I was a little nervous, but I leaned down to Mrs O’Leary’s
ear. ‘Okay, girl. Uh, can you take me to Westport,
Connecticut? May Castellan’s place?’
Mrs O’Leary sniﬀed the air. She looked into the gloom of
the forest. Then she bounded forward, straight into an oak
tree.
Just before we hit, we passed into shadows as cold as the
dark side of the moon.
1177
6    My Cookies Get Scorched
 
I don’t recommend shadow-travel if you’re scared of:
 
a) the dark
b) cold shivers up your spine
c) strange noises or
d) going so fast you feel as if your face is peeling oﬀ.
 
In other words, I thought it was awesome. One minute I
couldn’t see anything. I could only feel Mrs O’Leary’s fur and
my ﬁngers wrapped around the bronze links of her dog
collar.
The next minute the shadows melted into a new scene.
We were on a cliﬀ in the woods of Connecticut. At least, it
looked like Connecticut from the few times I’d been there –
lots of trees, low stone walls, big houses. Down one side of
the cliﬀ, a highway cut through a ravine. Down the other
side was someone’s backyard. The property was huge –
more wilderness than lawn. The house was a white colonial-
style two-storey. Despite the fact that it was right on the
other side of the hill from a highway, it felt like it was in the
middle of nowhere. I could see a light glowing in the kitchen
window. A rusty old swing set stood under an apple tree.
I couldn’t imagine living in a house like this, with an actual
yard and everything. I’d lived in a tiny apartment or a school
dorm my whole life. If this was Luke’s home, I wondered why
he’d ever wanted to leave.
Mrs O’Leary staggered. I remembered what Nico had said
about shadow travel draining her, so I slipped oﬀ her back.
She let out a huge toothy yawn that would’ve scared a T-
1178
rex, then turned in a circle and ﬂopped down so hard the
ground shook.
Nico appeared right next to me, like the shadows had
darkened and created him. He stumbled but I caught his
arm.
‘I’m okay,’ he managed, rubbing his eyes.
‘How did you do that?’
‘Practice. A few times running into walls. A few accidental
trips to China.’
Mrs O’Leary started snoring. If it hadn’t been for the roar
of traﬃc behind us, I’m sure she would’ve woken up the
whole neighbourhood.
‘Are you going to take a nap, too?’ I asked Nico.
He shook his head. ‘The ﬁrst time I shadow-travelled, I
passed out for a week. Now it just makes me a little drowsy,
but I can’t do it more than once or twice a night. Mrs
O’Leary won’t be going anywhere for a while.’
‘So we’ve got some quality time in Connecticut.’ I gazed
at the white colonial-style house. ‘What now?’
‘We ring the doorbell,’ Nico said.
If I were Luke’s mom, I would not have opened my door at
night for two strange kids. But I wasn’t anything like Luke’s
mom.
I knew that even before we reached the front door. The
sidewalk was lined with those little stuﬀed beanbag animals
you see in gift shops. There were miniature lions, pigs,
dragons, hydras, even a teeny Minotaur in a little Minotaur
diaper. Judging from their sad shape, the beanbag creatures
had been sitting out here a long time – since the snow
melted last spring at least. One of the hydras had a tree
sapling sprouting between its necks.
The front porch was infested with wind chimes. Shiny bits
of glass and metal clinked in the breeze. Brass ribbons
tinkled like water and made me realize I needed to use the
1179
bathroom. I didn’t know how Ms Castellan could stand all
the noise.
The front door was painted turquoise. The name
CASTELLAN was written in English and below in Greek: 
Nico looked at me. ‘Ready?’
He’d barely tapped the door when it swung open.
‘Luke!’ the old lady cried happily.
She looked like someone who enjoyed sticking her ﬁngers
in electrical sockets. Her white hair stuck out in tufts all over
her head. Her pink housedress was covered in scorch-marks
and smears of ash. When she smiled, her face looked
unnaturally stretched, and the high-voltage light in her eyes
made me wonder if she were blind.
‘Oh, my dear boy!’ She hugged Nico. I was trying to ﬁgure
out why she thought Nico was Luke (they looked absolutely
nothing alike) when she smiled at me and said, ‘Luke!’
She forgot all about Nico and gave me a hug. She smelled
like burnt cookies. She was as thin as a scarecrow, but that
didn’t stop her from almost crushing me.
‘Come in!’ she insisted. ‘I have your lunch ready!’
She ushered us inside. The living room was even weirder
than the front lawn. Mirrors and candles ﬁlled every
available space. I couldn’t look anywhere without seeing my
own reﬂection. Above the mantle, a little bronze Hermes
ﬂew around the second hand of a ticking clock. I tried to
imagine the god of messengers ever falling in love with this
old woman, but the idea was too bizarre.
Then I noticed the framed picture on the mantle, and I
froze. It was exactly like Rachel’s sketch – Luke around nine
years old, with blond hair and a big smile and two missing
teeth. The lack of a scar on his face made him look like a
diﬀerent person – carefree and happy. How could Rachel
have known about that picture?
‘This way, my dear!’ Ms Castellan steered me towards the
back of the house. ‘Oh, I told them you would come back. I
1180
knew it!’
She sat us down at the kitchen table. Stacked on the
counter were hundreds – I mean hundreds – of Tupperware
boxes with peanut-butter-and-jam sandwiches inside. The
ones on the bottom were green and fuzzy, like they’d been
there for a long time. The smell reminded me of my sixth-
grade locker – and that’s not a good thing.
On top of the oven was a stack of cookie sheets. Each one
had a dozen burnt cookies on it. In the sink was a mountain
of empty plastic Kool-Aid pitchers. A beanbag Medusa sat by
the faucet like she was guarding the mess.
Ms Castellan started humming as she got out peanut
butter and jam and started making a new sandwich.
Something was burning in the oven. I got the feeling more
cookies were on the way.
Above the sink, taped all around the window, were dozens
of little pictures cut from magazines and newspaper ads –
pictures of Hermes from various company logos, pictures of
the caduceus from medical ads.
My heart sank. I wanted to get out of that room, but Ms
Castellan kept smiling at me as she made the sandwich, like
she was making sure I didn’t bolt.
Nico coughed. ‘Um, Ms Castellan?’
‘Mm?’
‘We need to ask you about your son.’
‘Oh, yes! They told me he would never come back. But I
knew better.’ She patted my cheek aﬀectionately, giving me
peanut-butter racing stripes.
‘When did you last see him?’ Nico asked.
Her eyes lost focus.
‘He was so young when he left,’ she said wistfully. ‘Third
grade. That’s too young to run away! He said he’d be back
for lunch. And I waited. He likes peanut-butter sandwiches
and cookies and Kool-Aid. He’ll be back for lunch very
soon  …’ Then she looked at me and smiled. ‘Why, Luke,
1181
there you are! You look so handsome. You have your father’s
eyes.’
She turned towards the pictures of Hermes above the
sink. ‘Now there’s a good man. Yes, indeed. He comes to
visit me, you know.’
The clock kept ticking in the other room. I wiped the
peanut butter oﬀ my face and looked at Nico pleadingly, like
Can we get out of here now?
‘Ma’am,’ Nico said. ‘What, uh  … what happened to your
eyes?’
Her gaze seemed fractured – like she was trying to focus
on him through a kaleidoscope. ‘Why, Luke, you know the
story. It was right before you were born, wasn’t it? I’d always
been special, able to see through the … whatever they call
it.’
‘The Mist?’ I said.
‘Yes, dear.’ She nodded encouragingly. ‘And they oﬀered
me an important job. That’s how special I was!’
I glanced at Nico, but he looked as confused as I was.
‘What sort of job?’ I asked. ‘What happened?’
Ms Castellan frowned. Her knife hovered over the
sandwich bread. ‘Dear me, it didn’t work out, did it? Your
father warned me not to try. He said it was too dangerous.
But I had to. It was my destiny! And now … I still can’t get
the images out of my head. They make everything seem so
fuzzy. Would you like some cookies?’
She pulled a tray out of the oven and dumped a dozen
lumps of chocolate-chip charcoal on the table.
‘Luke was so kind,’ Ms Castellan murmured. ‘He left to
protect me, you know. He said if he went away, the
monsters wouldn’t threaten me. But I told him the monsters
are no threat! They sit outside on the sidewalk all day, and
they never come in.’ She picked up the little stuﬀed Medusa
from the windowsill. ‘Do they, Mrs Medusa? No, no threat at
all.’ She beamed at me. ‘I’m so glad you came home. I knew
you weren’t ashamed of me!’
1182
I shifted in my seat. I imagined being Luke, sitting at this
table, eight or nine years old, and just beginning to realize
that my mother wasn’t all there.
‘Ms Castellan,’ I said.
‘Mom,’ she corrected.
‘Um, yeah. Have you seen Luke since he left home?’
‘Well, of course!’
I didn’t know if she was imagining that or not. For all I
knew, every time the mailman came to the door he was
Luke. But Nico sat forward expectantly.
‘When?’ he asked. ‘When did Luke visit you last?’
‘Well, it was … oh goodness …’ A shadow passed across
her face. ‘The last time, he looked so diﬀerent. A scar. A
terrible scar, and his voice so full of pain …’
‘His eyes,’ I said. ‘Were they gold?’
‘Gold?’ She blinked. ‘No. How silly. Luke has blue eyes.
Beautiful blue eyes!’
So Luke really had been here, and this had happened
before last summer – before he’d turned into Kronos.
‘Ms Castellan?’ Nico put his hand on the old woman’s arm.
‘This is very important. Did he ask you for anything?’
She frowned as if trying to remember. ‘My – my blessing.
Isn’t that sweet?’ She looked at us uncertainly. ‘He was
going to a river, and he said he needed my blessing. I gave
it to him. Of course I did.’
Nico looked at me triumphantly. ‘Thank you, ma’am.
That’s all the information we –’
Ms Castellan gasped. She doubled over and her cookie
tray clattered to the ﬂoor. Nico and I jumped to our feet.
‘Ms Castellan?’ I said.
‘AHHHH.’ She straightened. I scrambled away and almost
fell over the kitchen table because her eyes – her eyes were
glowing green.
‘My child,’ she rasped in a much deeper voice. ‘Must
protect him! Hermes, help! Not my child! Not his fate – no!’
1183
She grabbed Nico by the shoulders and began to shake
him as if trying to make him understand. ‘Not his fate!’
Nico made a strangled scream and pushed her away. He
gripped the hilt of his sword. ‘Percy, we need to get out –’
Suddenly Ms Castellan collapsed. I lurched forward and
caught her before she could hit the edge of the table. I
managed to get her into a chair.
‘Ms C?’ I asked.
She muttered something incomprehensible and shook her
head. ‘Goodness. I  … I dropped the cookies. How silly of
me.’
She blinked, and her eyes were back to normal – or, at
least, what they had been before. The green glow was gone.
‘Are you okay?’ I asked.
‘Well, of course, dear. I’m ﬁne. Why do you ask?’
I glanced at Nico, who mouthed the word: Leave.
‘Ms C, you were telling us something,’ I said. ‘Something
about your son.’
‘Was I?’ she said dreamily. ‘Yes, his blue eyes. We were
talking about his blue eyes. Such a handsome boy!’
‘We have to go,’ Nico said urgently. ‘We’ll tell Luke … uh,
we’ll tell him you said hello.’
‘But you can’t leave!’ Ms Castellan got shakily to her feet
and I backed away. I felt silly being scared of a frail old
woman, but the way her voice had changed, the way she’d
grabbed Nico …
‘Hermes will be here soon,’ she promised. ‘He’ll want to
see his boy!’
‘Maybe next time,’ I said. ‘Thank you for –’ I looked down
at the burnt cookies scattered on the ﬂoor. ‘Thanks for
everything.’
She tried to stop us, to oﬀer us Kool-Aid, but I had to get
out of that house. On the front porch, she grabbed my wrist
and I almost jumped out of my skin. ‘Luke, at least be safe.
Promise me you’ll be safe.’
‘I will … Mom.’
1184
That made her smile. She released my wrist, and as she
closed the front door, I could hear her talking to the candles:
‘You hear that? He will be safe. I told you he would be!’
As the door shut, Nico and I ran. The little beanbag
animals on the sidewalk seemed to grin at us when we
passed.
Back at the cliﬀ, Mrs O’Leary had found a friend.
A cosy campﬁre crackled in a ring of stones. A girl about
eight years old was sitting cross-legged next to Mrs O’Leary,
scratching the hellhound’s ears.
The girl had mousy brown hair and a simple brown dress.
She wore a scarf over her head so she looked like a pioneer
kid – like the ghost of Little House on the Prairie or
something. She poked the ﬁre with a stick, and it seemed to
glow more richly red than a normal ﬁre.
‘Hello,’ she said.
My ﬁrst thought was: monster. When you’re a demigod
and you ﬁnd a sweet little girl alone in the woods – that’s
typically a good time to draw your sword and attack. Plus
the encounter with Ms Castellan had rattled me pretty badly.
But Nico bowed to the little girl. ‘Hello again, Lady.’
She studied me with eyes as red as the ﬁrelight. I decided
it was safest to bow.
‘Sit, Percy Jackson,’ she said. ‘Would you like some
dinner?’
After staring at mouldy peanut-butter sandwiches and
burnt cookies, I didn’t have much of an appetite, but the girl
waved her hand and a picnic appeared at the edge of the
ﬁre. There were plates of roast beef, baked potatoes,
buttered carrots, fresh bread and a whole bunch of other
foods I hadn’t had in a long time. My stomach started to
rumble. It was the kind of home-cooked meal people are
supposed to have, but never do. The girl made a two-metre-
long dog biscuit appear for Mrs O’Leary, who happily began
tearing it to shreds.
1185
I sat next to Nico. We picked up our food and I was about
to dig in when I thought better of it.
I scraped part of my meal into the ﬂames, the way we do
at camp. ‘For the gods,’ I said.
The little girl smiled. ‘Thank you. As tender of the ﬂame, I
get a share of every sacriﬁce, you know.’
‘I recognize you now,’ I said. ‘The ﬁrst time I came to
camp, you were sitting by the ﬁre, in the middle of the
commons area.’
‘You did not stop to talk,’ the girl recalled sadly. ‘Alas,
most never do. Nico talked to me. He was the ﬁrst in many
years. Everyone rushes about. No time for visiting family.’
‘You’re Hestia,’ I said. ‘Goddess of the hearth.’
She nodded.
Okay  … so she looked eight years old. I didn’t ask. I’d
learned that gods could look any way they pleased.
‘My lady,’ Nico asked, ‘why aren’t you with the other
Olympians ﬁghting Typhon?’
‘I’m not much for ﬁghting.’ Her red eyes ﬂickered. I
realized they weren’t just reﬂecting the ﬂames. They were
ﬁlled with ﬂames – but not like Ares’ eyes. Hestia’s eyes
were warm and cosy.
‘Besides,’ she said, ‘someone has to keep the home ﬁres
burning while the other gods are away.’
‘So you’re guarding Mount Olympus?’ I asked.
‘“Guard” may be too strong a word. But if you ever need a
warm place to sit and a home-cooked meal, you are
welcome to visit. Now eat.’
My plate was empty before I knew it. Nico scarfed his
down just as fast.
‘That was great,’ I said. ‘Thank you, Hestia.’
She nodded. ‘Did you have a good visit with May
Castellan?’
For a moment, I’d almost forgotten the old lady with her
bright eyes and her maniacal smile, the way she’d suddenly
seemed possessed.
1186
‘What’s wrong with her exactly?’ I asked.
‘She was born with a gift,’ Hestia said. ‘She could see
through the Mist.’
‘Like my mother,’ I said. And I was also thinking, Like
Rachel. ‘But the glowing-eyes thing –’
‘Some bear the curse of sight better than others,’ the
goddess said sadly. ‘For a while, May Castellan had many
talents. She attracted the attention of Hermes himself. They
had a beautiful baby boy. For a brief time, she was happy.
And then she went too far.’
I remembered what Mrs Castellan had said: They oﬀered
me an important job. It didn’t work out. I wondered what
kind of job left you like that.
‘One minute she was all happy,’ I said. ‘And then she was
freaking out about her son’s fate, like she knew he’d turned
into Kronos. What happened to … to divide her like that?’
The goddess’s face darkened. ‘That is a story I do not like
to tell. But May Castellan saw too much. If you are to
understand your enemy Luke, you must understand his
family.’
I thought about the sad little pictures of Hermes taped
above May Castellan’s sink. I wondered if Ms Castellan had
been so crazy when Luke was little. That green-eyed ﬁt
could’ve seriously scared a nine-year-old kid. And if Hermes
never visited, if he’d left Luke alone with his mom all those
years …
‘No wonder Luke ran away,’ I said. ‘I mean, it wasn’t right
to leave his mom like that, but still – he was just a kid.
Hermes shouldn’t have abandoned them.’
Hestia 
scratched 
behind 
Mrs 
O’Leary’s 
ears. 
The
hellhound wagged her tail and accidentally knocked over a
tree.
‘It’s easy to judge others,’ Hestia warned. ‘But will you
follow Luke’s path? Seek the same powers?’
Nico set down his plate. ‘We have no choice, my lady. It’s
the only way Percy stands a chance.’
1187
‘Mmm.’ Hestia opened her hand and the ﬁre roared.
Flames shot ten metres into the air. Heat slapped me in the
face. Then the ﬁre died back down to normal.
‘Not all powers are spectacular.’ Hestia looked at me.
‘Sometimes the hardest power to master is the power of
yielding. Do you believe me?’
‘Uh-huh,’ I said. Anything to keep her from messing with
her ﬂame powers again.
The goddess smiled. ‘You are a good hero, Percy Jackson.
Not too proud. I like that. But you have much to learn. When
Dionysus was made a god, I gave up my throne for him. It
was the only way to avoid a civil war among the gods.’
‘It unbalanced the council,’ I remembered. ‘Suddenly
there were seven guys and ﬁve girls.’
Hestia shrugged. ‘It was the best solution, not a perfect
one. Now I tend the ﬁre. I fade slowly into the background.
No one will ever write epic poems about the deeds of
Hestia. Most demigods don’t even stop to talk to me. But
that is no matter. I keep the peace. I yield when necessary.
Can you do this?’
‘I don’t know what you mean.’
She studied me. ‘Perhaps not yet. But soon. Will you
continue your quest?’
‘Is that why you’re here – to warn me against going?’
Hestia shook her head. ‘I am here because when all else
fails, when all the other mighty gods have gone oﬀ to war, I
am all that’s left. Home. Hearth. I am the last Olympian. You
must remember me when you face your ﬁnal decision.’
I didn’t like the way she said ﬁnal.
I looked at Nico, then back at Hestia’s warm glowing eyes.
‘I have to continue, my lady. I have to stop Luke – I mean
Kronos.’
Hestia nodded. ‘Very well. I cannot be of much assistance,
beyond what I have already told you. But since you
sacriﬁced to me, I can return you to your own hearth. I will
see you again, Percy, on Olympus.’
1188
Her tone was ominous, like our next meeting would not be
happy.
The goddess waved her hand, and everything faded.
Suddenly I was home. Nico and I were sitting on the couch
in my mom’s apartment on the Upper East Side. That was
the good news. The bad news was that the rest of the living
room was occupied by Mrs O’Leary.
I heard a muﬄed yell from the bedroom. Paul’s voice said,
‘Who put this wall of fur in the doorway?’
‘Percy?’ my mom called out. ‘Are you here? Are you all
right?’
‘I’m here!’ I shouted back.
‘WOOF!’ Mrs O’Leary tried to turn in a circle to ﬁnd my
mom, knocking all the pictures oﬀ the walls. She’s only met
my mom once before (long story), but she loves her.
It took a few minutes, but we ﬁnally got things worked
out. After destroying most of the furniture in the living room
and probably making our neighbours really mad, we got my
parents out of the bedroom and into the kitchen, where we
sat around the kitchen table. Mrs O’Leary still took up the
entire living room, but she’d settled her head in the kitchen
doorway so she could see us, which made her happy. My
mom tossed her a ﬁve-kilogram pack of ground beef, which
disappeared down her gullet. Paul poured lemonade for the
rest of us while I explained about our visit to Connecticut.
‘So it’s true.’ Paul stared at me like he’d never seen me
before. He was wearing his white bathrobe, now covered in
hellhound fur, and his salt-and-pepper hair was sticking up
in every direction. ‘All the talk about monsters, and being a
demigod … it’s really true.’
I nodded. Last autumn I’d explained to Paul who I was. My
mom had backed me up. But until this moment I don’t think
he really believed us.
‘Sorry about Mrs O’Leary,’ I said, ‘destroying the living
room and all.’
1189
Paul laughed like he was delighted. ‘Are you kidding? This
is awesome! I mean, when I saw the hoof prints on the Prius,
I thought maybe. But this!’
He patted Mrs O’Leary’s snout. The living room shook –
BOOM, BOOM, BOOM – which either meant a SWAT team
was breaking down the door or Mrs O’Leary was wagging
her tail.
I couldn’t help but smile. Paul was a pretty cool guy, even
if he was my English teacher as well as my stepdad.
‘Thanks for not freaking out,’ I said.
‘Oh, I’m freaking out,’ he promised, his eyes wide. ‘I just
think it’s awesome!’
‘Yeah, well,’ I said, ‘you may not be so excited when you
hear what’s happening.’
I told Paul and my mom about Typhon, and the gods, and
the battle that was sure to come. Then I told them Nico’s
plan.
My mom laced her ﬁngers around her lemonade glass.
She was wearing her old blue ﬂannel bathrobe and her hair
was tied back. Recently she’d started writing a novel like
she’d wanted to do for years, and I could tell she’d been
working on it late into the night, because the circles under
her eyes were darker than usual.
Behind her at the kitchen window, silvery moonlace
glowed in the ﬂowerbox. I’d brought the magical plant back
from Calypso’s island last summer, and it bloomed like crazy
under my mother’s care. The scent always calmed me
down, but it also made me sad, because it reminded me of
lost friends.
My mom took a deep breath, like she was thinking how to
tell me no.
‘Percy, it’s dangerous,’ she said. ‘Even for you.’
‘Mom, I know. I could die. Nico explained that. But if we
don’t try –’
‘We’ll all die,’ Nico said. He hadn’t touched his lemonade.
‘Ms Jackson, we don’t stand a chance against an invasion.
1190
And there will be an invasion.’
‘An invasion of New York?’ Paul said. ‘Is that even
possible? How could we not see the … the monsters?’
He said the word like he still couldn’t believe this was real.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘I don’t see how Kronos could
just march into Manhattan, but the Mist is strong. Typhon is
trampling across the country right now and mortals think
he’s a storm system.’
‘Ms Jackson,’ Nico said, ‘Percy needs your blessing. The
process has to start that way. I wasn’t sure until we met
Luke’s mom, but now I’m positive. This has only been done
successfully twice before. Both times, the mother had to
give her blessing. She had to be willing to let her son take
the risk.’
‘You want me to bless this?’ She shook her head. ‘It’s
crazy. Percy, please –’
‘Mom, I can’t do it without you.’
‘And if you survive this – this process?’
‘Then I go to war,’ I said. ‘Me against Kronos. And only one
of us will survive.’
I didn’t tell her the whole prophecy – about the soul
reaping and the end of my days. She didn’t need to know
that I was probably doomed. I could only hope I’d stop
Kronos and save the rest of the world before I died.
‘You’re my son,’ she said miserably. ‘I can’t just …’
I could tell I’d have to push her harder if I wanted her to
agree, but I didn’t want to. I remembered poor Ms Castellan
in her kitchen, waiting for her son to come home. And I
realized how lucky I was. My mom had always been there for
me, always tried to make things normal for me, even with
the gods and monsters and stuﬀ. She put up with me going
oﬀ on adventures, but now I was asking her blessing to do
something that would probably get me killed.
I locked eyes with Paul, and some kind of understanding
passed between us.
1191
‘Sally.’ He put his hand over my mother’s hands. ‘I can’t
claim to know what you and Percy have been going through
all these years. But it sounds to me … it sounds like Percy is
doing something noble. I wish I had that much courage.’
I got a lump in my throat. I didn’t get compliments like
that too much.
My mom stared at her lemonade. She looked like she was
trying not to cry. I thought about what Hestia had said,
about how hard it was to yield, and I ﬁgured maybe my
mom was ﬁnding that out.
‘Percy,’ she said, ‘I give you my blessing.’
I didn’t feel any diﬀerent. No magic glow lit the kitchen or
anything.
I glanced at Nico.
He looked more anxious than ever, but he nodded. ‘It’s
time.’
‘Percy,’ my mom said. ‘One last thing. If you – if you
survive this ﬁght with Kronos, send me a sign.’ She
rummaged through her bag and handed me her cell phone.
‘Mom,’ I said, ‘you know demigods and phones –’
‘I know,’ she said. ‘But just in case. If you’re not able to
call  … maybe a sign that I could see from anywhere in
Manhattan. To let me know you’re okay.’
‘Like Theseus,’ Paul suggested. ‘He was supposed to raise
white sails when he came home to Athens.’
‘Except he forgot,’ Nico muttered. ‘And his father jumped
oﬀ the palace roof in despair. But other than that it was a
great idea.’
‘What about a ﬂag or a ﬂare?’ my mom said. ‘From
Olympus – the Empire State Building.’
‘Something blue,’ I said.
We’d had a running joke for years about blue food. It was
my favourite colour, and my mom went out of her way to
humour me. Every year my birthday cake, my Easter basket,
my Christmas candy canes always had to be blue.
1192
‘Yes,’ my mom agreed. ‘I’ll watch for a blue signal. And I’ll
try to avoid jumping oﬀ palace roofs.’
She gave me one last hug. I tried not to feel like I was
saying goodbye. I shook hands with Paul. Then Nico and I
walked to the kitchen doorway and looked at Mrs O’Leary.
‘Sorry, girl,’ I said. ‘Shadow-travel time again.’
She whimpered and crossed her paws over her snout.
‘Where now?’ I asked Nico. ‘Los Angeles?’
‘No need,’ he said. ‘There’s a closer entrance to the
Underworld.’
1193
7    My Maths Teacher Gives Me a Lift
 
We emerged in Central Park just north of the Pond. Mrs
O’Leary looked pretty tired as she limped over to a cluster of
boulders. She started sniﬃng around and I was afraid she
might mark her territory, but Nico said, ‘It’s okay. She just
smells the way home.’
I frowned. ‘Through the rocks?’
‘The Underworld has two major entrances,’ Nico said. ‘You
know the one in L.A.’
‘Charon’s ferry.’
Nico nodded. ‘Most souls go that way, but there’s a
smaller path, harder to ﬁnd. The Door of Orpheus.’
‘The dude with the harp.’
‘Dude with the lyre,’ Nico corrected. ‘But, yeah, him. He
used his music to charm the earth and open a new path into
the Underworld. He sang his way right into Hades’ palace
and almost got away with his wife’s soul.’
I remembered the story. Orpheus wasn’t supposed to look
behind him when he was leading his wife back to the world,
but of course he did. It was one of those typical ‘and-so-
they-died/the-end’ stories that always made us demigods
feel warm and fuzzy.
‘So this is the Door of Orpheus.’ I tried to be impressed,
but it still looked like a pile of rocks to me. ‘How does it
open?’
‘We need music,’ Nico said. ‘How’s your singing?’
‘Um, no. Can’t you just, like, tell it to open? You’re the son
of Hades and all.’
‘It’s not so easy. We need music.’
1194
I was pretty sure if I tried to sing, all I would cause was an
avalanche.
‘I have a better idea.’ I turned and called, ‘GROVER!’
We waited for a long time. Mrs O’Leary curled up and took a
nap. I could hear the crickets in the woods and an owl
hooting. Traﬃc hummed along Central Park West. Horse
hooves clopped down a nearby path, maybe a mounted
police patrol. I was sure they’d love to ﬁnd two kids hanging
out in the park at one in the morning.
‘It’s no good,’ Nico said at last.
But I had a feeling. My empathy link was really tingling for
the ﬁrst time in months, which either meant a whole lot of
people had suddenly switched on the Nature Channel, or
Grover was close.
I shut my eyes and concentrated. Grover.
I knew he was somewhere in the park. Why couldn’t I
sense his emotions? All I got was a faint hum in the base of
my skull.
Grover, I thought more insistently.
Hmm-hmmmm, something said.
An image came into my head. I saw a giant elm tree deep
in the woods, well oﬀ the main paths. Gnarled roots laced
the ground, making a kind of bed. Lying in it with his arms
crossed and his eyes closed was a satyr. At ﬁrst I couldn’t be
sure it was Grover. He was covered in twigs and leaves like
he’d been sleeping there a long time. The roots seemed to
be shaping themselves around him, slowly pulling him into
the earth.
Grover, I said. Wake up.
Unnnh – zzzzz.
Dude, you’re covered in dirt. Wake up!
Sleepy, his mind murmured.
FOOD, I suggested. PANCAKES!
His eyes shot open. A blur of thoughts ﬁlled my head like
he was suddenly on fast-forward. The image shattered and I
1195
almost fell over.
‘What happened?’ Nico asked.
‘I got through. He’s … yeah. He’s on his way.’
A minute later, the tree next to us shivered. Grover fell out
of the branches, right on his head.
‘Grover!’ I yelled.
‘Woof!’ Mrs O’Leary looked up, probably wondering if we
were going to play fetch with the satyr.
‘Blah-haa-haa!’ Grover bleated.
‘You okay, man?’
‘Oh, I’m ﬁne.’ He rubbed his head. His horns had grown so
much they poked right out of his curly hair. ‘I was at the
other end of the park. The dryads had this great idea of
passing me through the trees to get me here. They don’t
understand height very well.’
He grinned and got to his feet – well, his hooves actually.
Since last summer, Grover had stopped trying to disguise
himself as human. He never wore a cap or fake feet any
more. He didn’t even wear jeans, since he had furry goat
legs from the waist down. His T-shirt had a picture from that
book – Where the Wild Things Are. It was covered with dirt
and tree sap. His goatee looked fuller, almost manly (or
goatly?), and he was as tall as me now.
‘Good to see you, G-man,’ I said. ‘You remember Nico.’
Grover nodded at Nico, then he gave me a big hug. He
smelled like fresh-mown lawns.
‘Perrrrcy!’ he bleated. ‘I missed you! I miss camp. They
don’t serve very good enchiladas in the wilderness.’
‘I was worried,’ I said. ‘Where’ve you been the last two
months?’
‘The last two –’ Grover’s smile faded. ‘The last two
months? What are you talking about?’
‘We haven’t heard from you,’ I said. ‘Juniper’s worried. We
sent Iris-messages but –’
‘Hold on.’ He looked up at the stars, like he was trying to
calculate his position. ‘What month is this?’
1196
‘August.’
The colour drained from his face. ‘That’s impossible. It’s
June. I just lay down to take a nap and …’ He grabbed my
arms. ‘I remember now! He knocked me out. Percy, we have
to stop him!’
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Slow down. Tell me what happened.’
He took a deep breath. ‘I was  … I was walking in the
woods up by Harlem Meer. And I felt this tremble in the
ground, like something powerful was near.’
‘You can sense stuﬀ like that?’ Nico asked.
Grover nodded. ‘Since Pan’s death, I can feel when
something is wrong in nature. It’s like my ears and eyes are
sharper when I’m in the wild. Anyway, I started following the
scent. This man in a long black coat was walking through
the park, and I noticed he didn’t cast a shadow. Middle of a
sunny day, and he cast no shadow. He kind of shimmered as
he moved.’
‘Like a mirage?’ Nico asked.
‘Yes,’ Grover said. ‘And whenever he passed humans –’
‘The humans would pass out,’ Nico said. ‘Curl up and go to
sleep.’
‘That’s right! Then after he was gone, they’d get up and
go about their business like nothing happened.’
I stared at Nico. ‘You know this guy in black?’
‘Afraid so,’ Nico said. ‘Grover, what happened?’
‘I followed the guy. He kept looking up at the buildings
around the park like he was making estimates or something.
This lady jogger ran by, and she curled up on the sidewalk
and started snoring. The guy in black put his hand on her
forehead like he was checking her temperature. Then he
kept walking. By this time, I knew he was a monster or
something even worse. I followed him into this grove, to the
base of a big elm tree. I was about to summon some dryads
to help me capture him when he turned and …’
Grover swallowed. ‘Percy, his face. I couldn’t make out his
face because it kept shifting. Just looking at him made me
1197
sleepy. I said, “What are you doing?” He said, “Just having a
look around. You should always scout a battleﬁeld before the
battle.” I said something really smart like, “This forest is
under my protection. You won’t start any battles here!” And
he laughed. He said, “You’re lucky I’m saving my energy for
the main event, little satyr. I’ll just grant you a short nap.
Pleasant dreams.” And that’s the last thing I remember.’
Nico exhaled. ‘Grover, you met Morpheus, the god of
dreams. You’re lucky you ever woke up.’
‘Two months,’ Grover moaned. ‘He put me to sleep for two
months!’
I tried to wrap my mind around what this meant. Now it
made sense why we hadn’t been able to contact Grover all
this time.
‘Why didn’t the nymphs try to wake you?’ I asked.
Grover shrugged. ‘Most nymphs aren’t good with time.
Two months for a tree – that’s nothing. They probably didn’t
think anything was wrong.’
‘We’ve got to ﬁgure out what Morpheus was doing in the
park,’ I said. ‘I don’t like this “main event” thing he
mentioned.’
‘He’s working for Kronos,’ Nico said. ‘We know that
already. A lot of the minor gods are. This just proves there’s
going to be an invasion. Percy, we have to get on with our
plan.’
‘Wait,’ Grover said. ‘What plan?’
We told him, and Grover started tugging at his leg fur.
‘You’re not serious,’ he said. ‘Not the Underworld again.’
‘I’m not asking you to come, man,’ I promised. ‘I know you
just woke up. But we need some music to open the door.
Can you do it?’
Grover took out his reed pipes. ‘I guess I could try. I know
a few Nirvana tunes that can split rocks. But, Percy, are you
sure you want to do this?’
‘Please, man,’ I said. ‘It would mean a lot. For old times’
sake?’
1198
He whimpered. ‘As I recall, in the old times we almost died
a lot. But, okay, here goes nothing.’
He put his pipes to his lips and played a shrill, lively tune.
The boulders trembled. A few more stanzas and they
cracked open, revealing a triangular crevice.
I peered inside. Steps led down into the darkness. The air
smelled of mildew and death. It brought back bad memories
of my trip through the Labyrinth last year, but this tunnel
felt even more dangerous. It led straight to the land of
Hades, and that was almost always a one-way trip.
I turned to Grover. ‘Thanks … I think.’
‘Perrrrcy, is Kronos really going to invade?’
‘I wish I could tell you better, but yeah. He will.’
I thought Grover might chew up his reed pipes in anxiety,
but he straightened up and brushed oﬀ his T-shirt. I couldn’t
help thinking how diﬀerent he looked from fat old Leneus.
‘I’ve got to rally the nature spirits, then. Maybe we can help.
I’ll see if we can ﬁnd this Morpheus!’
‘Better tell Juniper you’re okay, too.’
His eyes widened. ‘Juniper! Oh, she’s going to kill me!’
He started to run oﬀ, then scrambled back and gave me
another hug. ‘Be careful down there! Come back alive!’
Once he was gone, Nico and I roused Mrs O’Leary from her
nap.
When she smelled the tunnel, she got excited and led the
way down the steps. It was a pretty tight ﬁt. I hoped she
wouldn’t get stuck. I couldn’t imagine how much Drāno we’d
need to unstick a hellhound wedged halfway down a tunnel
to the Underworld.
‘Ready?’ Nico asked me. ‘It’ll be ﬁne. Don’t worry.’
He sounded like he was trying to convince himself.
I glanced up at the stars, wondering if I would ever see
them again. Then we plunged into darkness.
The stairs went on forever – narrow, steep and slippery. It
was completely dark except for the light of my sword. I tried
1199
to go slow, but Mrs O’Leary had other ideas. She bounded
ahead, barking happily. The sound echoed through the
tunnel like cannon shots, and I ﬁgured we would not be
catching anybody by surprise once we reached the bottom.
Nico lagged behind, which I thought was strange.
‘You okay?’ I asked him.
‘Fine.’ What was that expression on his face – doubt? ‘Just
keep moving,’ he said.
I didn’t have much choice. I followed Mrs O’Leary into the
depths. After another hour, I started to hear the roar of a
river.
We emerged at the base of a cliﬀ, on a plain of black
volcanic sand. To our right, the River Styx gushed from the
rocks and roared oﬀ in a cascade of rapids. To our left, far
away in the gloom, ﬁres burned on the ramparts of Erebos,
the great black walls of Hades’ kingdom.
I shuddered. I’d ﬁrst been here when I was twelve, and
only Annabeth and Grover’s company had given me the
courage to keep going. Nico wasn’t going to be quite as
helpful with the ‘courage’ thing. He looked pale and worried
himself.
Only Mrs O’Leary acted happy. She ran along the beach,
picked up a random human leg bone and romped back
towards me. She dropped the bone at my feet and waited
for me to throw it.
‘Um, maybe later, girl.’ I stared at the dark waters, trying
to get up my nerve. ‘So, Nico … how do we do this?’
‘We have to go inside the gates ﬁrst,’ he said.
‘But the river’s right here.’
‘I have to get something,’ he said. ‘It’s the only way.’
He marched oﬀ without waiting.
I frowned. Nico hadn’t mentioned anything about going
inside the gates. But now that we were here I didn’t know
what else to do. Reluctantly, I followed him down the beach
towards the big black gates.
1200
Lines of the dead stood outside waiting to get in. It
must’ve been a heavy day for funerals, because even the EZ-
DEATH line was backed up.
‘Woof!’ Mrs O’Leary said. Before I could stop her she
bounded towards the security checkpoint. Cerberus, the
guard dog of Hades, appeared out of the gloom – a three-
headed Rottweiler so big he made Mrs O’Leary look like a
toy poodle. Cerberus was half-transparent, so he’s really
hard to see until he’s close enough to kill you, but he acted
like he didn’t care about us. He was too busy saying hello to
Mrs O’Leary.
‘Mrs O’Leary, no!’ I shouted at her. ‘Don’t sniﬀ – oh, man.’
Nico smiled. Then he looked at me and his expression
turned all serious again, like he’d remembered something
unpleasant. ‘Come on. They won’t give us any trouble in the
line. You’re with me.’
I didn’t like it, but we slipped through the security ghouls
and into the Fields of Asphodel. I had to whistle for Mrs
O’Leary three times before she left Cerberus alone and ran
after us.
We hiked over black ﬁelds of grass dotted with black
poplar trees. If I really died in a few days like the prophecy
said, I might end up here forever, but I tried not to think
about that.
Nico trudged ahead, bringing us closer and closer to the
palace of Hades.
‘Hey,’ I said, ‘we’re inside the gates already. Where are we
–’
Mrs O’Leary growled. A shadow appeared overhead –
something dark, cold and stinking of death. It swooped
down and landed in the top of a poplar tree.
Unfortunately, I recognized her. She had a shrivelled face,
a horrible blue knitted hat and a crumpled velvet dress.
Leathery bat wings sprang from her back. Her feet had
sharp talons, and in her brass-clawed hands she held a
ﬂaming whip and a paisley handbag.
1201
‘Mrs Dodds,’ I said.
She bared her fangs. ‘Welcome back, honey.’
Her two sisters – the other Furies – swooped down and
settled next to her in the branches of the poplar.
‘You know Alecto?’ Nico asked me.
‘If you mean the hag in the middle, yeah,’ I said. ‘She was
my maths teacher.’
Nico nodded, like this didn’t surprise him. He looked up at
the Furies and took a deep breath. ‘I’ve done what my
father asked. Take us to the palace.’
I tensed. ‘Wait a second, Nico. What do you –’
‘I’m afraid this is my new lead, Percy. My father promised
me information about my family, but he wants to see you
before we try the river. I’m sorry.’
‘You tricked me?’ I was so mad I couldn’t think. I lunged at
him, but the Furies were fast. Two of them swooped down
and plucked me up by the arms. My sword fell out of my
hand and before I knew it I was dangling twenty metres in
the air.
‘Oh, don’t struggle, honey,’ my old maths teacher cackled
in my ear. ‘I’d hate to drop you.’
Mrs O’Leary barked angrily and jumped, trying to reach
me, but we were too high.
‘Tell Mrs O’Leary to behave,’ Nico warned. He was
hovering near me in the clutches of the third Fury. ‘I don’t
want her to get hurt, Percy. My father is waiting. He just
wants to talk.’
I wanted to tell Mrs O’Leary to attack Nico, but it wouldn’t
have done any good, and Nico was right about one thing:
my dog could get hurt if she tried to pick a ﬁght with the
Furies.
I gritted my teeth. ‘Mrs O’Leary, down! It’s okay, girl.’
She whimpered and turned in circles, looking up at me.
‘All right, traitor,’ I growled at Nico. ‘You’ve got your prize.
Take me to the stupid palace.’
1202
Alecto dropped me like a sack of turnips in the middle of the
palace garden.
It was beautiful in a creepy way. Skeletal white trees grew
from marble basins. Flowerbeds overﬂowed with golden
plants and gemstones. A pair of thrones, one bone and one
silver, sat on the balcony with a view of the Fields of
Asphodel. It would’ve been a nice place to spend a Saturday
morning except for the sulphurous smell and the cries of
tortured souls in the distance.
Skeletal warriors guarded the only exit. They wore
tattered U.S. Army desert combat fatigues and carried
M16s.
The third Fury deposited Nico next to me. Then all three of
them settled on the top of the skeletal throne. I resisted the
urge to strangle Nico. They’d only stop me. I’d have to wait
for my revenge.
I stared at the empty thrones, waiting for something to
happen. Then the air shimmered. Three ﬁgures appeared –
Hades and Persephone on their thrones and an older woman
standing between them. They seemed to be in the middle of
an argument.
‘– told you he was a bum!’ the older woman said.
‘Mother!’ Persephone replied.
‘We have visitors!’ Hades barked. ‘Please!’
Hades, one of my least favourite gods, smoothed his black
robes, which were covered with the terriﬁed faces of the
damned. He had pale skin and the intense eyes of a
madman.
‘Percy Jackson,’ he said with satisfaction. ‘At last.’
Queen Persephone studied me curiously. I’d seen her once
before in the winter but now in the summer she looked like a
totally diﬀerent goddess. She had lustrous black hair and
warm brown eyes. Her dress shimmered with colours.
Flower patterns in the fabric changed and bloomed – roses,
tulips, honeysuckle.
1203
The woman standing between them was obviously
Persephone’s mother. She had the same hair and eyes, but
looked older and sterner. Her dress was golden, the colour
of a wheat ﬁeld. Her hair was woven with dried grasses so it
reminded me of a wicker basket. I ﬁgured if somebody lit a
match next to her, she’d be in serious trouble.
‘Hmmph,’ the older woman said. ‘Demigods. Just what we
need.’
Next to me, Nico knelt. I wished I had my sword so I could
cut his stupid head oﬀ. Unfortunately, Riptide was still out in
the ﬁelds somewhere.
‘Father,’ Nico said. ‘I have done as you asked.’
‘Took you long enough,’ Hades grumbled. ‘Your sister
would’ve done a better job.’
Nico lowered his head. If I hadn’t been so mad at the little
creep, I might’ve felt sorry for him.
I glared up at the god of the dead. ‘What do you want,
Hades?’
‘To talk, of course.’ The god twisted his mouth in a cruel
smile. ‘Didn’t Nico tell you?’
‘So this whole quest was a lie. Nico brought me down here
to get me killed.’
‘Oh, no,’ Hades said. ‘I’m afraid Nico was quite sincere
about wanting to help you. The boy is as honest as he is
dense. I simply convinced him to take a small detour and
bring you here ﬁrst.’
‘Father,’ Nico said, ‘you promised that Percy would not be
harmed. You said if I brought him, you would tell me about
my past – about my mother.’
Queen Persephone sighed dramatically. ‘Can we please
not talk about that woman in my presence?’
‘I’m sorry, my dove,’ Hades said. ‘I had to promise the boy
something.’
The older lady harrumphed. ‘I warned you, daughter. This
scoundrel Hades is no good. You could’ve married the god of
1204
doctors or the god of lawyers, but noooo. You had to eat the
pomegranate.’
‘Mother –’
‘And get stuck in the Underworld!’
‘Mother, please –’
‘And here it is August, and do you come home like you’re
supposed to? Do you ever think about your poor lonely
mother?’
‘DEMETER!’ Hades shouted. ‘That is enough. You are a
guest in my house.’
‘Oh, a house is it?’ she said. ‘You call this dump a house?
Make my daughter live in this dark, damp –’
‘I told you,’ Hades said, grinding his teeth, ‘there’s a war
in the world above. You and Persephone are better oﬀ here
with me.’
‘Excuse me,’ I broke in, ‘but if you’re going to kill me,
could you just get on with it?’
All three gods looked at me.
‘Well, this one has an attitude,’ Demeter observed.
‘Indeed,’ Hades agreed. ‘I’d love to kill him.’
‘Father!’ Nico said. ‘You promised!’
‘Husband, we talked about this,’ Persephone chided. ‘You
can’t go around incinerating every hero. Besides, he’s
brave. I like that.’
Hades rolled his eyes. ‘You liked that Orpheus fellow, too.
Look how well that turned out. Let me kill him, just a little
bit.’
‘Father, you promised!’ Nico said. ‘You said you only
wanted to talk to him! You said if I brought him, you’d
explain.’
Hades glowered, smoothing the folds of his robes. ‘And so
I shall. Your mother – what can I tell you? She was a
wonderful 
woman.’ 
He 
glanced 
uncomfortably 
at
Persephone. ‘Forgive me, my dear. I mean for a mortal, of
course. Her name was Maria di Angelo. She was from
Venice, but her father was a diplomat in Washington, D.C.
1205
That’s where I met her. When you and your sister were
young, it was a bad time to be children of Hades. World War
II was brewing. A few of my, ah, other children were leading
the losing side. I thought it best to put you two out of harm’s
way.’
‘That’s why you hid us in the Lotus Casino?’
Hades shrugged. ‘You didn’t age. You didn’t realize time
was passing. I waited for the right time to bring you out.’
‘But what happened to our mother? Why don’t I remember
her?’
‘Not important,’ Hades snapped.
‘What? Of course it’s important. And you had other
children – why were we the only ones who were sent away?
And who was the lawyer who got us out?’
Hades gritted his teeth. ‘You would do well to listen more
and talk less, boy. As for the lawyer …’
Hades snapped his ﬁngers. On top of his throne, the Fury
Alecto began to change until she was a middle-aged man in
a pinstriped suit with a briefcase. She – he – looked strange
crouching at Hades’ shoulder.
‘You!’ Nico said.
The Fury cackled. ‘I do lawyers and teachers very well!’
Nico was trembling. ‘But why did you free us from the
casino?’
‘You know why,’ Hades said. ‘This idiot son of Poseidon
cannot be allowed to be the child of the prophecy.’
I plucked a ruby oﬀ the nearest plant and threw it at
Hades. It sank harmlessly into his robe. ‘You should be
helping Olympus!’ I said. ‘All the other gods are ﬁghting
Typhon, and you’re just sitting here –’
‘Waiting things out,’ Hades ﬁnished. ‘Yes, that’s correct.
When’s the last time Olympus ever helped me, half-blood?
When’s the last time a child of mine was ever welcomed as
a hero? Bah! Why should I rush out and help them? I’ll stay
here with my forces intact.’
‘And when Kronos comes after you?’
1206
‘Let him try. He’ll be weakened. And my son here, Nico –’
Hades looked at him with distaste. ‘Well, he’s not much
now, I’ll grant you. It would’ve been better if Bianca had
lived. But give him four more years of training. We can hold
out that long, surely. Nico will turn sixteen, as the prophecy
says, and then he will make the decision that will save the
world. And I will be king of the gods.’
‘You’re crazy,’ I said. ‘Kronos will crush you, right after he
ﬁnishes pulverizing Olympus.’
Hades spread his hands. ‘Well, you’ll get a chance to ﬁnd
out, half-blood. Because you’ll be waiting out this war in my
dungeons.’
‘No!’ Nico said. ‘Father, that wasn’t our agreement. And
you haven’t told me everything!’
‘I’ve told you all you need to know,’ Hades said. ‘As for
our agreement, I spoke with Jackson. I did not harm him. You
got your information. If you wanted a better deal, you
should’ve made me swear on the Styx. Now go to your
room!’ He waved his hand and Nico vanished.
‘That boy needs to eat more,’ Demeter grumbled. ‘He’s
too skinny. He needs more cereal.’
Persephone rolled her eyes. ‘Mother, enough with the
cereal. My lord Hades, are you sure we can’t let this little
hero go? He’s awfully brave.’
‘No, my dear. I’ve spared his life. That’s enough.’
I was sure she was going to stand up for me. The brave,
beautiful Persephone was going to get me out of this.
She shrugged indiﬀerently. ‘Fine. What’s for breakfast? I’m
starving.’
‘Cereal,’ Demeter said.
‘Mother!’ The two women disappeared in a swirl of ﬂowers
and wheat.
‘Don’t feel too bad, Percy Jackson,’ Hades said. ‘My ghosts
keep me well informed of Kronos’s plans. I can assure you
that you had no chance to stop him in time. By tonight, it
1207
will be too late for your precious Mount Olympus. The trap
will be sprung.’
‘What trap?’ I demanded. ‘If you know about it, do
something! At least let me tell the other gods!’
Hades smiled. ‘You are spirited. I’ll give you credit for that.
Have fun in my dungeon. We’ll check on you again in – oh,
ﬁfty or sixty years.’
1208
8    I Take The Worst Bath Ever
 
My sword reappeared in my pocket.
Yeah, great timing. Now I could attack the walls all I
wanted. My cell had no bars, no windows, not even a door.
The skeletal guards shoved me straight through a wall and it
became solid behind me. I wasn’t sure if the room was
airtight. Probably. Hades’ dungeon was meant for dead
people, and they don’t breathe. So forget ﬁfty or sixty years.
I’d be dead in ﬁfty or sixty minutes. Meanwhile, if Hades
wasn’t lying, some big trap was going to be sprung in New
York by the end of the day, and there was absolutely
nothing I could do about it.
I sat on the cold stone ﬂoor feeling miserable.
I don’t remember dozing oﬀ. Then again it must’ve been
about seven in the morning, mortal time, and I’d been
through a lot.
I dreamed I was on the porch of Rachel’s beach house in
St Thomas. The sun was rising over the Caribbean. Dozens
of wooded islands dotted the sea and white sails cut across
the water. The smell of salt air made me wonder if I would
ever see the ocean again.
Rachel’s parents sat at the patio table while a personal
chef ﬁxed them omelettes. Mr Dare was dressed in a white
linen suit. He was reading the Wall Street Journal. The lady
across the table was probably Mrs Dare, though all I could
see of her were hot pink ﬁngernails and the cover of Condé
Nast Traveller. Why she’d be reading about vacations while
she was on vacation, I wasn’t sure.
1209
Rachel stood at the porch railing and sighed. She wore
Bermuda shorts and her van Gogh T-shirt. (Yeah, Rachel was
trying to teach me about art, but don’t get too impressed. I
only remembered the dude’s name because he cut his ear
oﬀ.)
I wondered if she were thinking about me, and how much
it sucked that I wasn’t with them on vacation. I know that’s
what I was thinking.
Then the scene changed. I was in St Louis, standing
downtown under the Arch. I’d been there before. In fact I’d
almost fallen to my death there before.
Over the city, a thunderstorm boiled – a wall of absolute
black with lightning streaking across the sky. A few blocks
away, swarms of emergency vehicles gathered with their
lights ﬂashing. A column of dust rose from a mound of
rubble, which I realized was a collapsed skyscraper.
A nearby reporter was yelling into her microphone:
‘Oﬃcials are describing this as a structural failure, Dan,
though no one seems to know if it is related to the storm
conditions.’
Wind whipped her hair. The temperature was dropping
rapidly – like ten degrees just since I’d been standing there.
‘Thankfully 
the 
building 
had 
been 
abandoned 
for
demolition,’ she said. ‘But police have evacuated all nearby
buildings for fear the collapse might trigger –’
She faltered as a mighty groan cut through the sky. A blast
of lightning hit the centre of the darkness. The entire city
shook. The air glowed and every hair on my body stood up.
The blast was so powerful I knew it could only be one thing:
Zeus’s master bolt. It should have vaporized its target, but
the dark cloud only staggered backwards. A smoky ﬁst
appeared out of the clouds. It smashed another tower and
the whole thing collapsed like children’s blocks.
The reporter screamed. People ran through the streets.
Emergency lights ﬂashed. I saw a streak of silver in the sky –
a chariot pulled by reindeer, but it wasn’t Santa Claus
1210
driving. It was Artemis riding the storm, shooting shafts of
moonlight into the darkness. A ﬁery golden comet crossed
her path – maybe her brother, Apollo.
One thing was clear: Typhon had made it to the Mississippi
River. He was halfway across the U.S., leaving destruction in
his wake, and the gods were barely slowing him down.
The mountain of darkness loomed above me. A foot the
size of Yankee Stadium was about to smash me when a
voice hissed: ‘Percy!’
I lunged out blindly. Before I was fully awake, I had Nico
pinned to the ﬂoor of the cell with the edge of my sword at
his throat.
‘Want – to – rescue,’ he choked.
Anger woke me up fast. ‘Oh, yeah? And why should I trust
you?’
‘No – choice?’ he gagged.
I wished he hadn’t said something logical like that. I let
him go.
Nico curled into a ball and made retching sounds while his
throat recovered. Finally he got to his feet, eyeing my sword
warily. His own blade was sheathed. I suppose if he’d
wanted to kill me, he could’ve done it while I slept. Still, I
didn’t trust him.
‘We have to get out of here,’ he said.
‘Why?’ I said. ‘Does your dad want to talk to me again?’
He winced. ‘Percy, I swear on the River Styx, I didn’t know
what he was planning.’
‘You know what your dad is like!’
‘He tricked me. He promised –’ Nico held up his hands.
‘Look  … right now, we need to leave. I put the guards to
sleep, but it won’t last.’
I wanted to strangle him again. Unfortunately, he was
right. We didn’t have time to argue and I couldn’t escape on
my own. He pointed at the wall. A whole section vanished,
revealing a corridor.
‘Come on.’ Nico led the way.
1211
I wished I had Annabeth’s invisibility hat, but as it turned
out I didn’t need it. Every time we came to a skeleton guard,
Nico just pointed at it and its glowing eyes dimmed.
Unfortunately, the more Nico did it, the more tired he
seemed. We walked through a maze of corridors ﬁlled with
guards. By the time we reached a kitchen staﬀed by skeletal
cooks and servants, I was practically carrying Nico. He
managed to put all the dead to sleep but nearly passed out
himself. I dragged him out the servants’ entrance and into
the Fields of Asphodel.
I almost felt relieved until I heard the sound of bronze
gongs high in the castle.
‘Alarms,’ Nico murmured sleepily.
‘What do we do?’
He yawned then frowned like he was trying to remember.
‘How about … run?’
Running with a drowsy child of Hades was more like doing a
three-legged race with a life-sized rag doll. I lugged him
along, holding my sword in front of me. The spirits of the
dead made way like the celestial bronze was a blazing ﬁre.
The sound of gongs rolled across the ﬁelds. Ahead loomed
the walls of Erebos, but the longer we walked the further
away they seemed. I was about to collapse from exhaustion
when I heard a familiar ‘WOOOOOF!’
Mrs O’Leary bounded out of nowhere and ran circles
around us, ready to play.
‘Good girl!’ I said. ‘Can you give us a ride to the Styx?’
The word ‘Styx’ got her excited. She probably thought I
meant sticks. She jumped a few times, chased her tail just
to teach it who was boss and then calmed down enough for
me to push Nico onto her back. I climbed aboard and she
raced towards the gates. She leaped straight over the EZ-
DEATH line, sending guards sprawling and causing more
alarms to blare. Cerberus barked, but he sounded more
excited than angry, like: Can I play, too?
1212
Fortunately, he didn’t follow us, and Mrs O’Leary kept
running. She didn’t stop until we were far upriver and the
ﬁres of Erebos had disappeared in the murk.
Nico slid oﬀ Mrs O’Leary’s back and crumpled in a heap on
the black sand.
I took out a square of ambrosia – part of the emergency
god-food I always kept with me. It was a little bashed up,
but Nico chewed it.
‘Uh,’ he mumbled. ‘Better.’
‘Your powers drain you too much,’ I noted.
He nodded sleepily. ‘With great power  … comes great
need to take a nap. Wake me up later.’
‘Whoa, zombie dude.’ I caught him before he could pass
out again. ‘We’re at the river. You need to tell me what to
do.’
I fed him the last of my ambrosia, which was a little
dangerous. The stuﬀ can heal demigods, but it can also burn
us to ashes if we eat too much. Fortunately, it seemed to do
the trick. Nico shook his head a few times and struggled to
his feet.
‘My father will be coming soon,’ he said. ‘We should hurry.’
The River Styx’s current swirled with strange objects –
broken 
toys, 
ripped-up 
college 
diplomas, 
wilted
homecoming corsages – all the dreams people had thrown
away as they’d passed from life into death. Looking at the
black water, I could think of about three million places I’d
rather swim.
‘So … I just jump in?’
‘You have to prepare yourself ﬁrst,’ Nico said, ‘or the river
will destroy you. It will burn away your body and soul.’
‘Sounds fun,’ I muttered.
‘This is no joke,’ Nico warned. ‘There is only one way to
stay anchored to your mortal life. You have to …’
He glanced behind me and his eyes widened. I turned and
found myself face to face with a Greek warrior.
1213
For a second, I thought he was Ares, because this guy
looked exactly like the god of war – tall and buﬀ, with a cruel
scarred face and closely shaved black hair. He wore a white
tunic and bronze armour. He held a plumed war helm under
his arm. But his eyes were human – pale green like a
shallow sea – and a bloody arrow stuck out of his left calf,
just above the ankle.
I stunk at Greek names, but even I knew the greatest
warrior of all time, who had died from a wounded heel.
‘Achilles,’ I said.
The ghost nodded. ‘I warned the other one not to follow
my path. Now I will warn you.’
‘Luke? You spoke with Luke?’
‘Do not do this,’ he said. ‘It will make you powerful. But it
will also make you weak. Your prowess in combat will be
beyond any mortal, but your weaknesses, your failings will
increase as well.’
‘You mean I’ll have a bad heel?’ I said. ‘Couldn’t I just, like,
wear something besides sandals? No oﬀence.’
He stared down at his bloody foot. ‘The heel is only my
physical weakness, demigod. My mother, Thetis, held me
there when she dipped me in the Styx. What really killed me
was my own arrogance. Beware! Turn back!’
He meant it. I could hear the regret and bitterness in his
voice. He was honestly trying to save me from a terrible
fate.
Then again, Luke had been here, and he hadn’t turned
back.
That’s why Luke had been able to host the spirit of Kronos
without his body disintegrating. This is how he’d prepared
himself, and why he seemed impossible to kill. He had
bathed in the River Styx and taken on the powers of the
greatest mortal hero, Achilles. He was invincible.
‘I have to,’ I said. ‘Otherwise I don’t stand a chance.’
Achilles lowered his head. ‘Let the gods witness I tried.
Hero, if you must do this, concentrate on your mortal point.
1214
Imagine one spot of your body that will remain vulnerable.
This is the point where your soul will anchor your body to
the world. It will be your greatest weakness, but also your
only hope. No man may be completely invulnerable. Lose
sight of what keeps you mortal, and the River Styx will burn
you to ashes. You will cease to exist.’
‘I don’t suppose you could tell me Luke’s mortal point?’
He scowled. ‘Prepare yourself, foolish boy. Whether you
survive this or not, you have sealed your doom!’
With that happy thought, he vanished.
‘Percy,’ Nico said, ‘maybe he’s right.’
‘This was your idea.’
‘I know, but now that we’re here –’
‘Just wait on the shore. If anything happens to me … Well,
maybe Hades will get his wish, and you’ll be the child of the
prophecy after all.’
He didn’t look pleased about that, but I didn’t care.
Before I could change my mind, I concentrated on the
small of my back – a tiny point just opposite my navel. It
was well defended when I wore my armour. It would be hard
to hit by accident, and few enemies would aim for it on
purpose. No place was perfect, but this seemed right to me,
and a lot more digniﬁed than, like, my armpit or something.
I pictured a string – a bungee cord connecting me to the
world from the small of my back. And I stepped into the
river.
Imagine jumping into a pit of boiling acid. Now multiply that
pain times ﬁfty. You still won’t be close to understanding
what it felt like to swim in the Styx. I planned to walk in slow
and courageous like a real hero. As soon as the water
touched my legs, my muscles turned to jelly and I fell face
ﬁrst into the current.
I submerged completely. For the ﬁrst time in my life, I
couldn’t breathe underwater. I ﬁnally understood the panic
of drowning. Every nerve in my body burned. I was
1215
dissolving in the water. I saw faces – Rachel, Grover, Tyson,
my mother – but they faded as soon as they appeared.
‘Percy,’ my mom said. ‘I give you my blessing.’
‘Be safe, brother!’ Tyson pleaded.
‘Enchiladas!’ Grover said. I wasn’t sure where that came
from, but it didn’t seem to help much.
I was losing the ﬁght. The pain was too much. My hands
and feet were melting into water, my soul being ripped from
my body. I couldn’t remember who I was. The pain of
Kronos’s scythe had been nothing compared to this.
The cord, a familiar voice said. Remember your lifeline,
dummy!
Suddenly there was a tug in my lower back. The current
pulled at me, but it wasn’t carrying me away any more. I
imagined the string in my back, keeping me tied to the
shore.
‘Hold on, Seaweed Brain.’ It was Annabeth’s voice, much
clearer now. ‘You’re not getting away from me that easily.’
The cord strengthened.
I could see Annabeth now – standing barefoot above me
on the canoe-lake pier. I’d fallen out of my canoe. That was
it. She was reaching out her hand to haul me up, and she
was trying not to laugh. She wore her orange camp T-shirt
and jeans. Her hair was tucked up in her Yankees cap, which
was strange, because that should have made her invisible.
‘You are such an idiot sometimes.’ She smiled. ‘Come on.
Take my hand.’
Memories came ﬂooding back to me – sharper and more
colourful. I stopped dissolving. My name was Percy Jackson.
I reached up and took Annabeth’s hand.
Suddenly I burst out of the river. I collapsed on the sand
and Nico scrambled back in surprise.
‘Are you okay?’ he stammered. ‘Your skin. Oh, gods. You’re
hurt!’
My arms were bright red. I felt like every inch of my body
had been broiled over a slow ﬂame.
1216
I looked around for Annabeth, though I knew she wasn’t
here. It had seemed so real.
‘I’m ﬁne … I think.’ The colour of my skin turned back to
normal. The pain subsided. Mrs O’Leary came up and sniﬀed
me with concern. Apparently, I smelled really interesting.
‘Do you feel stronger?’ Nico asked.
Before I could decide what I felt, a voice boomed, ‘THERE!’
An army of the dead marched towards us. A hundred
skeletal Roman legionnaires led the way with shields and
spears. Behind them came an equal number of British
redcoats with bayonets ﬁxed. In the middle of the host,
Hades himself rode a black-and-gold chariot pulled by
nightmare horses, their eyes and manes smouldering with
ﬁre.
‘You will not escape me this time, Percy Jackson!’ Hades
bellowed. ‘Destroy him!’
‘Father, no!’ Nico shouted, but it was too late. The front
line of Roman zombies lowered their spears and advanced.
Mrs O’Leary growled and got ready to pounce. Maybe
that’s what set me oﬀ. I didn’t want them hurting my dog.
Plus I was tired of Hades being a big bully. If I were going to
die, I might as well go down ﬁghting.
I yelled and the River Styx exploded. A black tidal wave
smashed into the legionnaires. Spears and shields ﬂew
everywhere. Roman zombies began to dissolve, smoke
coming oﬀ their bronze helmets.
The redcoats lowered their bayonets, but I didn’t wait for
them. I charged.
It was stupidest thing I’ve ever done. A hundred muskets
ﬁred at me – point blank. All of them missed. I crashed into
their line and started hacking with Riptide. Bayonets jabbed.
Swords slashed. Guns reloaded and ﬁred. Nothing touched
me.
I whirled through the ranks, slashing redcoats to dust one
after the other. My mind went on autopilot: stab, dodge, cut,
1217
deﬂect, roll. Riptide was no longer a sword. It was an arc of
pure destruction.
I broke through the enemy line and leaped into the black
chariot. Hades raised his staﬀ. A bolt of dark energy shot
towards me, but I deﬂected it oﬀ my blade and slammed
into him. The god and I both tumbled out of the chariot.
The next thing I knew, my knee was planted on Hades’
chest. I was holding the collar of his royal robes in one ﬁst,
and the tip of my sword was poised right over his face.
Silence. The army did nothing to defend their master. I
glanced back and realized why. There was nothing left of
them but weapons in the sand and piles of smoking, empty
uniforms. I had destroyed them all.
Hades swallowed. ‘Now, Jackson, listen here …’
He was immortal. There was no way I could kill him, but
gods can be wounded. I knew that ﬁrsthand, and I ﬁgured a
sword in the face wouldn’t feel too good.
‘Just because I’m a nice person,’ I snarled, ‘I’ll let you go.
But ﬁrst, tell me about that trap!’
Hades melted into nothing, leaving me holding empty
black robes.
I cursed and got to my feet, breathing heavily. Now that
the danger was over, I realized how tired I was. Every
muscle in my body ached. I looked down at my clothes.
They were slashed to pieces and full of bullet holes, but I
was ﬁne. Not a mark on me.
Nico’s mouth hung open. ‘You just … with a sword … you
just –’
‘I think the river thing worked,’ I said.
‘Oh, gee,’ he said sarcastically. ‘You think?’
Mrs O’Leary barked happily and wagged her tail. She
bounded around, sniﬃng empty uniforms and hunting for
bones. I lifted Hades’ robe. I could still see the tormented
faces shimmering in the fabric.
I walked to the edge of the river. ‘Be free.’
1218
I dropped the robe in the water and watched as it swirled
away, dissolving in the current.
‘Go back to your father,’ I told Nico. ‘Tell him he owes me
for letting him go. Find out what’s going to happen to Mount
Olympus and convince him to help.’
Nico stared at me. ‘I – I can’t. He’ll hate me now. I mean …
even more.’
‘You have to,’ I said. ‘You owe me, too.’
His ears turned red. ‘Percy, I told you I was sorry. Please …
let me come with you. I want to ﬁght.’
‘You’ll be more help down here.’
‘You mean you don’t trust me any more,’ he said
miserably.
I didn’t answer. I didn’t know what I meant. I was too
stunned by what I’d just done in battle to think clearly.
‘Just go back to your father,’ I said, trying not to sound too
harsh. ‘Work on him. You’re the only person who might be
able to get him to listen.’
‘That’s a depressing thought.’ Nico sighed. ‘All right. I’ll do
my best. Besides, he’s still hiding something from me about
my mom. Maybe I can ﬁnd out what.’
‘Good luck. Now Mrs O’Leary and I have to go.’
‘Where?’ Nico said.
I looked at the cave entrance and thought about the long
climb back to the world of the living. ‘To get this war started.
It’s time I found Luke.’
1219
9    Two Snakes Save My Life
 
I love New York. You can pop out of the Underworld in
Central Park, hail a taxi, head down Fifth Avenue with a
giant hellhound loping along behind you and nobody even
looks at you funny.
Of course, the Mist helped. People probably couldn’t see
Mrs O’Leary, or maybe they thought she was a large, loud,
very friendly truck.
I took the risk of using my mom’s cell phone to call
Annabeth for the second time. I’d called her once from the
tunnel, but only reached her voice mail. I’d had surprisingly
good reception, seeing as I was at the mythological centre
of the world and all, but I didn’t want to see what my mom’s
roaming charges were going to be.
This time, Annabeth picked up.
‘Hey,’ I said. ‘You get my message?’
‘Percy, where have you been? Your message said almost
nothing! We’ve been worried sick!’
‘I’ll ﬁll you in later,’ I said, though how I was going to do
that I had no idea. ‘Where are you?’
‘We’re on our way like you asked, almost to the Queens
Midtown Tunnel. But, Percy, what are you planning? We’ve
left the camp virtually undefended and there’s no way the
gods –’
‘Trust me,’ I said. ‘I’ll see you there.’
I hung up. My hands were trembling. I wasn’t sure if it was
a leftover reaction from my dip in the Styx, or anticipation of
what I was about to do. If this didn’t work, being
1220
invulnerable wasn’t going to save me from getting blasted
to bits.
It was late afternoon when the taxi dropped me at the
Empire State Building. Mrs O’Leary bounded up and down
Fifth Avenue, licking cabs and sniﬃng hot-dog carts. Nobody
seemed to notice her, although people did swerve away and
look confused when she came close.
I whistled her to heel as three white vans pulled up to the
kerb. They said Delphi Strawberry Service, which was the
cover name for Camp Half-Blood. I’d never seen all three
vans in the same place at once, though I knew they shuttled
our fresh produce into the city.
The ﬁrst van was driven by Argus, our many-eyed security
chief. The other two were driven by harpies, which are
basically 
demonic 
human/chicken 
hybrids 
with 
bad
attitudes. We used the harpies mostly for cleaning camp,
but they did pretty well in midtown traﬃc, too.
The doors slid open. A bunch of campers climbed out,
some of them looking a little green from the long drive. I
was glad so many had come: Pollux, Silena Beauregard, the
Stoll brothers, Michael Yew, Jake Mason, Katie Gardner and
Annabeth, along with most of their siblings. Chiron came out
of the van last. His horse half was compacted into his magic
wheelchair, so he used the handicap lift. The Ares cabin
wasn’t here, but I tried not to get too angry about that.
Clarisse was a stubborn idiot. End of story.
I did a head count: forty campers in all.
Not many to ﬁght a war, but it was still the largest group
of half-bloods I’d ever seen gathered in one place outside
camp. Everyone looked nervous, and I understood why. We
were probably sending out so much demigod aura that
every monster in the north-east United States knew we
were here.
As I looked at their faces – all these campers I’d known for
so many summers – a nagging voice whispered in my mind:
1221
One of them is a spy.
But I couldn’t dwell on that. They were my friends. I
needed them.
Then I remembered Kronos’s evil smile. You can’t count on
friends. They will always let you down.
Annabeth came up to me. She was dressed in black
camouﬂage with her celestial bronze knife strapped to her
arm and her laptop bag slung over her shoulder – ready for
stabbing or surﬁng the internet, whichever came ﬁrst.
She frowned. ‘What is it?’
‘What’s what?’ I asked.
‘You’re looking at me funny.’
I realized I was thinking about my strange vision of
Annabeth pulling me out of the Styx River. ‘It’s, uh, nothing.’
I turned to the rest of the group. ‘Thanks for coming,
everybody. Chiron, after you.’
My old mentor shook his head. ‘I came to wish you luck,
my boy. But I make it a point never to visit Olympus unless I
am summoned.’
‘But you’re our leader.’
He smiled. ‘I am your trainer, your teacher. That is not the
same as being your leader. I will go gather what allies I can.
It may not be too late to convince my brother centaurs to
help. Meanwhile, you called the campers here, Percy. You
are the leader.’
I wanted to protest, but everybody was looking at me
expectantly, even Annabeth.
I took a deep breath. ‘Okay, like I told Annabeth on the
phone, something bad is going to happen by tonight. Some
kind of trap. We’ve got to get an audience with Zeus and
convince him to defend the city. Remember, we can’t take
no for an answer.’
I asked Argus to watch Mrs O’Leary, which neither of them
looked happy about.
Chiron shook my hand. ‘You’ll do well, Percy. Just
remember your strengths and beware your weaknesses.’
1222
It sounded eerily close to what Achilles had told me. Then
I remembered Chiron had taught Achilles. That didn’t
exactly reassure me, but I nodded and tried to give him a
conﬁdent smile.
‘Let’s go,’ I told the campers.
A security guard was sitting behind the desk in the lobby,
reading a big black book with a ﬂower on the cover. He
glanced up when we all ﬁled in with our weapons and
armour clanking. ‘School group? We’re about to close up.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘Six-hundredth ﬂoor.’
He checked us out. His eyes were pale blue and his head
was completely bald. I couldn’t tell if he was human or not,
but he seemed to notice our weapons, so I guess he wasn’t
fooled by the Mist.
‘There is no six-hundredth ﬂoor, kid.’ He said it like it was
a required line he didn’t believe. ‘Move along.’
I leaned across the desk. ‘Forty demigods attract an awful
lot of monsters. You really want us hanging out in your
lobby?’
He thought about that. Then he hit a buzzer and the
security gate swung open. ‘Make it quick.’
‘You don’t want us going through the metal detectors,’ I
added.
‘Um, no,’ he agreed. ‘Elevator on the right. I guess you
know the way.’
I tossed him a golden drachma and we marched through.
We decided it would take two trips to get everybody up in
the elevator. I went with the ﬁrst group. Diﬀerent elevator
music was playing since my last visit – that old disco song
‘Stayin’ Alive’. A terrifying image ﬂashed through my mind
of Apollo in bellbottom trousers and a slinky silk shirt.
I was glad when the elevator doors ﬁnally dinged open. In
front of us, a path of ﬂoating stones led through the clouds
up to Mount Olympus, hovering two thousand metres over
Manhattan.
1223
I’d seen Olympus several times, but it still took my breath
away. The mansions glittered gold and white against the
sides of the mountain. Gardens bloomed on a hundred
terraces. Scented smoke rose from braziers that lined the
winding streets. And right at the top of the snow-capped
crest rose the main palace of the gods. It looked as majestic
as ever, but something seemed wrong. Then I realized the
mountain was silent – no music, no voices, no laughter.
Annabeth studied me. ‘You look … diﬀerent,’ she decided.
‘Where exactly did you go?’
The elevator doors opened again and the second group of
half-bloods joined us.
‘Tell you later,’ I said. ‘Come on.’
We made our way across the sky bridge into the streets of
Olympus. The shops were closed. The parks were empty. A
couple of muses sat on a bench strumming ﬂaming lyres,
but their hearts didn’t seem to be into it. A lone Cyclops
swept the street with an uprooted oak tree. A minor godling
spotted us from a balcony and ducked inside, closing his
shutters.
We passed under a big marble archway with statues of
Zeus and Hera on either side. Annabeth made a face at the
queen of the gods.
‘Hate her,’ she muttered.
‘Has she been cursing you or something?’ I asked. Last
year Annabeth had got on Hera’s bad side, but Annabeth
hadn’t really talked about it since.
‘Just little stuﬀ so far,’ she said. ‘Her sacred animal is the
cow, right?’
‘Right.’
‘So she sends cows after me.’
I tried not to smile. ‘Cows? In San Francisco?’
‘Oh, yeah. Usually I don’t see them, but the cows leave
me little presents all over the place – in our backyard, on the
sidewalk, in the school hallways. I have to be careful where I
step.’
1224
‘Look!’ Pollux cried, pointing towards the horizon. ‘What is
that?’
We all froze. Blue lights were streaking across the evening
sky towards Olympus like tiny comets. They seemed to be
coming from all over the city, heading straight towards the
mountain. As they got close, they ﬁzzled out. We watched
them for several minutes and they didn’t seem to do any
damage, but still it was strange.
‘Like infrared scopes,’ Michael Yew muttered. ‘We’re being
targeted.’
‘Let’s get to the palace,’ I said.
No one was guarding the hall of the gods. The gold-and-
silver doors stood wide open. Our footsteps echoed as we
walked into the throne room.
Of course, ‘room’ doesn’t really cover it. The place was
the size of Madison Square Garden. High above, the blue
ceiling glittered with constellations. Twelve giant empty
thrones stood in a U around a hearth. In one corner, a
house-sized globe of water hovered in the air, and inside
swam my old friend the Ophiotaurus – half-cow, half-
serpent.
‘Moooo!’ he said happily, turning in a circle.
Despite all the serious stuﬀ going on, I had to smile. Two
years ago we’d spent a lot of time trying to save the
Ophiotaurus from the Titans, and I’d got kind of fond of him.
He seemed to like me, too, even though I’d originally
thought he was a girl and named him Bessie.
‘Hey, man,’ I said. ‘They treating you okay?’
‘Mooo,’ Bessie answered.
We walked towards the thrones and a woman’s voice said,
‘Hello again, Percy Jackson. You and your friends are
welcome.’
Hestia stood by the hearth, poking the ﬂames with a stick.
She wore the same kind of simple brown dress as she had
before, but she was a grown woman now.
I bowed. ‘Lady Hestia.’
1225
My friends followed my example.
Hestia regarded me with her red glowing eyes. ‘I see you
went through with your plan. You bear the curse of Achilles.’
The other campers started muttering among themselves:
‘What did she say?’ ‘What about Achilles?’
‘You must be careful,’ Hestia warned me. ‘You gained
much on your journey. But you are still blind to the most
important truth. Perhaps a glimpse is in order.’
Annabeth nudged me. ‘Um … what is she talking about?’
I stared into Hestia’s eyes and an image rushed into my
mind: I saw a dark alley between red-brick warehouses. A
sign above one of the doors read: RICHMOND IRON WORKS.
Two half-bloods crouched in the shadows – a boy about
fourteen and a girl about twelve. I realized with a start that
the boy was Luke. The girl was Thalia, daughter of Zeus. I
was seeing a scene from back in the days when they were
on the run, before Grover found them.
Luke carried a bronze knife. Thalia had her spear and
shield of terror, Aegis. Luke and Thalia both looked hungry
and lean, with wild animal eyes, like they were used to
being attacked.
‘Are you sure?’ Thalia asked.
Luke nodded. ‘Something down here. I sense it.’
A rumble echoed from the alley, like someone had banged
on a sheet of metal. The half-bloods crept forward.
Old crates were stacked on a loading dock. Thalia and
Luke approached with their weapons ready. A curtain of
corrugated tin quivered as if something was behind it.
Thalia glanced at Luke. He counted silently: One, two,
three! He ripped away the tin and a little girl ﬂew at him
with a hammer.
‘Whoa!’ Luke said.
The girl had tangled blonde hair and was wearing ﬂannel
pyjamas. She couldn’t have been more than seven, but she
would’ve brained Luke if he hadn’t been so fast.
1226
He grabbed her wrist and the hammer skittered across the
cement.
The little girl fought and kicked. ‘No more monsters! Go
away!’
‘It’s okay!’ Luke struggled to hold her. ‘Thalia, put your
shield down. You’re scaring her.’
Thalia tapped Aegis and it shrank into a silver bracelet.
‘Hey, it’s all right,’ she said. ‘We’re not going to hurt you.
I’m Thalia. This is Luke.’
‘Monsters!’
‘No,’ Luke promised. ‘But we know all about monsters. We
ﬁght them, too.’
Slowly, the girl stopped kicking. She studied Luke and
Thalia with large intelligent grey eyes.
‘You’re like me?’ she said suspiciously.
‘Yeah,’ Luke said. ‘We’re … well, it’s hard to explain, but
we’re monster-ﬁghters. Where’s your family?’
‘My family hates me,’ the girl said. ‘They don’t want me. I
ran away.’
Thalia and Luke locked eyes. I knew they both related to
what she was saying.
‘What’s your name, kiddo?’ Thalia asked.
‘Annabeth.’
Luke smiled. ‘Nice name. I tell you what, Annabeth –
you’re pretty ﬁerce. We could use a ﬁghter like you.’
Annabeth’s eyes widened. ‘You could?’
‘Oh, yeah.’ Luke turned his knife and oﬀered her the
handle. ‘How’d you like a real monster-slaying weapon? This
is celestial bronze. Works a lot better than a hammer.’
Maybe under most circumstances, oﬀering a seven-year-
old kid a knife would not be a good idea, but when you’re a
half-blood regular rules kind of go out of the window.
Annabeth gripped the hilt.
‘Knives are only for the bravest and quickest ﬁghters,’
Luke explained. ‘They don’t have the reach or power of a
sword, but they’re easy to conceal and they can ﬁnd weak
1227
spots in your enemy’s armour. It takes a clever warrior to
use a knife. I have a feeling you’re pretty clever.’
Annabeth stared at him with adoration. ‘I am!’
Thalia grinned. ‘We’d better get going, Annabeth. We have
a safe house on the James River. We’ll get you some clothes
and food.’
‘You’re – you’re not going to take me back to my family?’
she said. ‘Promise?’
Luke put his hand on her shoulder. ‘You’re part of our
family now. And I promise I won’t let anything hurt you. I’m
not going to fail you like our families did us. Deal?’
‘Deal!’ Annabeth said happily.
‘Now come on,’ Thalia said. ‘We can’t stay put for long!’
The scene shifted. The three demigods were running
through the woods. It must’ve been several days later,
maybe even weeks. All of them looked beaten up like they’d
seen some battles. Annabeth was wearing new clothes –
jeans and an oversized army jacket.
‘Just a little further!’ Luke promised. Annabeth stumbled
and he took her hand. Thalia brought up the rear,
brandishing her shield like she was driving back whatever
pursued them. She was limping on her left leg.
They scrambled to a ridge and looked down the other side
at a white colonial-style house – May Castellan’s place.
‘All right,’ Luke said, breathing hard. ‘I’ll just sneak in and
grab some food and medicine. Wait here.’
‘Luke, are you sure?’ Thalia asked. ‘You swore you’d never
come back here. If she catches you –’
‘We don’t have a choice!’ he growled. ‘They burned our
nearest safe house. And you’ve got to treat that leg wound.’
‘This is your house?’ Annabeth said with amazement.
‘It was my house,’ Luke muttered. ‘Believe me, if it wasn’t
an emergency –’
‘Is your mom really horrible?’ Annabeth asked. ‘Can we
see her?’
‘No!’ Luke snapped.
1228
Annabeth shrank away from him, like his anger surprised
her.
‘I – I’m sorry,’ he said. ‘Just wait here. I promise everything
will be okay. Nothing’s going to hurt you. I’ll be back –’
A brilliant golden ﬂash illuminated the woods. The
demigods winced, and a man’s voice boomed: ‘You should
not have come home.’
The vision shut oﬀ.
My knees buckled, but Annabeth grabbed me. ‘Percy!
What happened?’
‘Did – did you see that?’ I asked.
‘See what?’
I glanced at Hestia, but the goddess’s face was
expressionless. I remembered something she’d told me in
the woods: If you are to understand your enemy Luke, you
must understand his family. But why had she shown me
those scenes?
‘How long was I out?’ I muttered.
Annabeth knitted her eyebrows. ‘Percy, you weren’t out at
all. You just looked at Hestia for, like, one second and
collapsed.’
I could feel everyone’s eyes on me. I couldn’t aﬀord to
look weak. Whatever those visions meant, I had to stay
focused on our mission.
‘Um, Lady Hestia,’ I said, ‘we’ve come on urgent business.
We need to see –’
‘We know what you need,’ a man’s voice said. I
shuddered, because it was the same voice I’d heard in the
vision.
A god shimmered into existence next to Hestia. He looked
about twenty-ﬁve, with curly salt-and-pepper hair and elﬁn
features. He wore a military pilot’s ﬂight suit, with tiny birds’
wings ﬂuttering on his helmet and his black leather boots. In
the crook of his arm was a long staﬀ entwined with two
living serpents.
1229
‘I will leave you now,’ Hestia said. She bowed to the
aviator and disappeared into smoke. I understood why she
was so anxious to go. Hermes, the god of messengers, did
not look happy.
‘Hello, Percy.’ His brow furrowed like he was annoyed with
me, and I wondered if he somehow knew about the vision I’d
just had. I wanted to ask why he’d been at May Castellan’s
house that night, and what had happened after he caught
Luke. I remembered the ﬁrst time I’d met Luke at Camp
Half-Blood. I’d asked him if he’d ever met his father, and he
looked at me bitterly and said: Once. But I could tell from
Hermes’ expression that this was not the time to ask.
I bowed awkwardly. ‘Lord Hermes.’
Oh, sure, one of the snakes said in my mind. Don’t say hi
to us. We’re just reptiles.
George, the other snake scolded. Be polite.
‘Hello, George,’ I said. ‘Hey, Martha.’
Did you bring us a rat? George asked.
George, stop it, Martha said. He’s busy!
Too busy for rats? George said. That’s just sad.
I decided it was better not to get into it with George. ‘Um,
Hermes,’ I said. ‘We need to talk to Zeus. It’s important.’
Hermes’ eyes were steely cold. ‘I am his messenger. May I
take a message?’
Behind me, the other demigods shifted restlessly. This
wasn’t going as planned. Maybe if I tried to speak with
Hermes in private …
‘You guys,’ I said. ‘Why don’t you do a sweep of the city?
Check the defences. See who’s left in Olympus. Meet
Annabeth and me back here in thirty minutes.’
Silena frowned. ‘But –’
‘That’s a good idea,’ Annabeth said. ‘Connor and Travis,
you two lead.’
The Stolls seemed to like that – getting handed an
important responsibility right in front of their dad. They
usually never led anything except toilet-paper raids. ‘We’re
1230
on it!’ Travis said. They herded the others out of the throne
room, leaving Annabeth and me with Hermes.
‘My lord,’ Annabeth said. ‘Kronos is going to attack New
York. You must suspect that. My mother must have foreseen
it.’
‘Your mother,’ Hermes grumbled. He scratched his back
with his caduceus, and George and Martha muttered, Ow,
ow, ow. ‘Don’t get me started on your mother, young lady.
She’s the reason I’m here at all. Zeus didn’t want any of us
to leave the front line. But your mother kept pestering him
nonstop, “It’s a trap, it’s a diversion,” blah, blah, blah. She
wanted to come back herself, but Zeus was not going to let
his number-one strategist leave his side while we’re battling
Typhon. And so, naturally, he sent me to talk to you.’
‘But it is a trap!’ Annabeth insisted. ‘Is Zeus blind?’
Thunder rolled through the sky.
‘I’d watch the comments, girl,’ Hermes warned. ‘Zeus is
not blind or deaf. He has not left Olympus completely
undefended.’
‘But there are these blue lights –’
‘Yes, yes. I saw them. Some mischief by that insuﬀerable
goddess of magic, Hecate, I’d wager, but you may have
noticed they aren’t doing any damage. Olympus has strong
magical wards. Besides, Aeolus, the king of the winds, has
sent his most powerful minions to guard the citadel. No one
save the gods can approach Olympus from the air. They
would be knocked out of the sky.’
I 
raised 
my 
hand. 
‘Um 
… 
what 
about 
that
materializing/teleporting thing you guys do?’
‘That’s a form of air travel, too, Jackson. Very fast, but the
wind gods are faster. No – if Kronos wants Olympus, he’ll
have to march through the entire city with his army and
take the elevators! Can you see him doing this?’
Hermes made it sound pretty ridiculous – hordes of
monsters going up in the elevator twenty at a time, listening
to ‘Stayin’ Alive’. Still, I didn’t like it.
1231
‘Maybe just a few of you could come back,’ I suggested.
Hermes shook his head impatiently. ‘Percy Jackson, you
don’t understand. Typhon is our greatest enemy.’
‘I thought that was Kronos.’
The god’s eyes glowed. ‘No, Percy. In the old days,
Olympus was almost overthrown by Typhon. He is husband
of Echidna –’
‘Met her at the Arch,’ I muttered. ‘Not nice.’
‘– and the father of all monsters. We can never forget how
close he came to destroying us all – how he humiliated us!
We were more powerful back in the old days. Now we can
expect no help from Poseidon because he’s ﬁghting his own
war. Hades sits in his realm and does nothing, and Demeter
and Persephone follow his lead. It will take all our remaining
power to oppose the storm giant. We can’t divide our forces,
nor wait until he gets to New York. We have to battle him
now. And we’re making progress.’
‘Progress?’ I said. ‘He nearly destroyed St Louis.’
‘Yes,’ Hermes admitted. ‘But he destroyed only half of
Kentucky. He’s slowing down. Losing power.’
I didn’t want to argue, but it sounded like Hermes was
trying to convince himself.
In the corner, the Ophiotaurus mooed sadly.
‘Please, Hermes,’ Annabeth said. ‘You said my mother
wanted to come. Did she give you any messages for us?’
‘Messages,’ he muttered. ‘“It’ll be a great job,” they told
me. “Not much work. Lots of worshippers.” Hmph. Nobody
cares what I have to say. It’s always about other people’s
messages.’
Rodents, George mused. I’m in it for the rodents.
Shhh, Martha scolded. We care what Hermes has to say.
Don’t we, George?
Oh, absolutely. Can we go back to the battle now? I want
to do laser mode again. That’s fun.
‘Quiet, both of you,’ Hermes grumbled.
1232
The god looked at Annabeth, who was doing her ‘big
pleading grey eyes’ thing.
‘Bah,’ Hermes said. ‘Your mother said to warn you that
you are on your own. You must hold Manhattan without the
help of the gods. As if I didn’t know that. Why they pay her
to be the wisdom goddess, I’m not sure.’
‘Anything else?’ Annabeth asked.
‘She said you should try plan twenty-three. She said you
would know what that meant.’
Annabeth’s face paled. Obviously, she knew what it
meant, and she didn’t like it. ‘Go on.’
‘Last thing.’ Hermes looked at me. ‘She said to tell Percy:
“Remember the rivers.” And, um – something about staying
away from her daughter.’
I’m not sure whose face was redder: Annabeth’s or mine.
‘Thank you, Hermes,’ Annabeth said. ‘And I – I wanted to
say … I’m sorry about Luke.’
The god’s expression hardened like he’d turned to marble.
‘You should’ve left that subject alone.’
Annabeth stepped back nervously. ‘Sorry?’
‘SORRY doesn’t cut it!’
George and Martha curled around the caduceus, which
shimmered and changed into something that looked
suspiciously like a high-voltage cattle prod.
‘You should’ve saved him when you had the chance,’
Hermes growled at Annabeth. ‘You’re the only one who
could have.’
I tried to step between them. ‘What are you talking about?
Annabeth didn’t –’
‘Don’t defend her, Jackson!’ Hermes turned the cattle prod
towards me. ‘She knows exactly what I’m talking about.’
‘Maybe you should blame yourself!’ I should’ve kept my
mouth shut, but all I could think about was turning his
attention away from Annabeth. This whole time – he hadn’t
been angry with me. He’d been angry with her. ‘Maybe if
you hadn’t abandoned Luke and his mom!’
1233
Hermes raised his cattle prod. He began to grow until he
was three metres tall. I thought: Well, that’s it.
But as he prepared to strike, George and Martha leaned in
close and whispered something in his ear.
Hermes clenched his teeth. He lowered the cattle prod
and it turned back to a staﬀ.
‘Percy Jackson,’ he said, ‘because you have taken on the
curse of Achilles, I must spare you. You are in the hands of
the Fates now. But you will never speak to me like that
again. You have no idea how much I have sacriﬁced, how
much –’
His voice broke, and he shrank back to human size. ‘My
son, my greatest pride … my poor May …’
He sounded so devastated I didn’t know what to say. One
minute he was ready to vaporize us. Now he looked like he
needed a hug.
‘Look, Lord Hermes,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry, but I need to know.
What happened to May? She said something about Luke’s
fate, and her eyes –’
Hermes glared at me and my voice faltered. The look on
his face wasn’t really anger, though. It was pain. Deep,
incredible pain.
‘I will leave you now,’ he said tightly. ‘I have a war to
ﬁght.’
He began to shine. I turned away and made sure
Annabeth did the same, because she was still frozen in
shock.
Good luck, Percy, Martha the snake whispered.
Hermes glowed with the light of a supernova. Then he was
gone.
Annabeth sat at the foot of her mother’s throne and cried. I
wanted to comfort her, but I wasn’t sure how.
‘Annabeth,’ I said, ‘it’s not your fault. I’ve never seen
Hermes act that way. I guess – I don’t know – he probably
feels guilty about Luke. He’s looking for somebody to blame.
1234
I don’t know why he lashed out at you. You didn’t do
anything to deserve that.’
Annabeth wiped her eyes. She stared at the hearth like it
was her own funeral pyre.
I shifted uneasily. ‘Um, you didn’t, right?’
She didn’t answer. Her celestial bronze knife was strapped
to her arm – the same knife I’d seen in Hestia’s vision. All
these years, I hadn’t realized it was a gift from Luke. I’d
asked her many times why she preferred to ﬁght with a
knife instead of a sword, and she’d never answered me.
Now I knew.
‘Percy,’ she said. ‘What did you mean about Luke’s
mother? Did you meet her?’
I nodded reluctantly. ‘Nico and I visited her. She was a
little … diﬀerent.’ I described May Castellan, and the weird
moment when her eyes had started to glow and she talked
about her son’s fate.
Annabeth frowned. ‘That doesn’t make sense. But why
were you visiting –’ Her eyes widened. ‘Hermes said you
bear the curse of Achilles. Hestia said the same thing. Did
you – did you bathe in the River Styx?’
‘Don’t change the subject.’
‘Percy! Did you or not?’
‘Um … maybe a little.’
I told her the story about Hades and Nico, and how I’d
defeated an army of the dead. I left out the vision of her
pulling me out of the river. I still didn’t quite understand that
part, and just thinking about it made me embarrassed.
She shook her head in disbelief. ‘Do you have any idea
how dangerous that was?’
‘I had no choice,’ I said. ‘It’s the only way I can stand up to
Luke.’
‘You mean  … di immortales, of course! That’s why Luke
didn’t die. He went to the Styx and – Oh no, Luke. What
were you thinking?’
‘So now you’re worried about Luke again,’ I grumbled.
1235
She stared at me like I’d just dropped from space. ‘What?’
‘Forget it,’ I muttered. I wondered what Hermes had
meant about Annabeth not saving Luke when she’d had the
chance. Clearly, she wasn’t telling me something. But at the
moment I wasn’t in the mood to ask. The last thing I wanted
to hear about was more of her history with Luke.
‘The point is he didn’t die in the Styx,’ I said. ‘Neither did
I. Now I have to face him. We have to defend Olympus.’
Annabeth was still studying my face, like she was trying to
see diﬀerences since my swim in the Styx. ‘I guess you’re
right. My mom mentioned –’
‘Plan twenty-three.’
She rummaged in her pack and pulled out Daedalus’s
laptop. The blue Delta symbol glowed on the top when she
booted it up. She opened a few ﬁles and started to read.
‘Here it is,’ she said. ‘Gods, we have a lot of work to do.’
‘One of Daedalus’s inventions?’
‘A lot of inventions … dangerous ones. If my mother wants
me to use this plan, she must think things are very bad.’
She looked at me. ‘What about her message to you:
“Remember the rivers”? What does that mean?’
I shook my head. As usual, I had no clue what the gods
were telling me. Which rivers was I supposed to remember?
The Styx? The Mississippi?
Just then the Stoll brothers ran in to the throne room.
‘You need to see this,’ Connor said. ‘Now.’
The blue lights in the sky had stopped, so at ﬁrst I didn’t
understand what the problem was.
The other campers had gathered in a small park at the
edge of the mountain. They were clustered at the guardrail,
looking down at Manhattan. The railing was lined with those
tourist binoculars, where you could deposit one golden
drachma and see the city. Campers were using every single
one.
1236
I looked down at the city. I could see almost everything
from here – the East River and the Hudson River carving the
shape of Manhattan, the grid of streets, the lights of
skyscrapers, the dark stretch of Central Park in the north.
Everything looked normal, but something was wrong. I felt it
in my bones before I realized what it was.
‘I don’t … hear anything,’ Annabeth said.
That was the problem.
Even from this height, I should’ve heard the noise of the
city – millions of people bustling around, thousands of cars
and machines – the hum of a huge metropolis. You don’t
think about it when you live in New York, but it’s always
there. Even in the dead of night, New York is never silent.
But it was now.
I felt like my best friend had suddenly dropped dead.
‘What did they do?’ My voice sounded tight and angry.
‘What did they do to my city?’
I pushed Michael Yew away from the binoculars and took a
look.
In the streets below, traﬃc had stopped. Pedestrians were
lying on the sidewalks, or curled up in doorways. There was
no sign of violence, no wrecks, nothing like that. It was as if
all the people in New York had simply decided to stop
whatever they were doing and pass out.
‘Are they dead?’ Silena asked in astonishment.
Ice coated my stomach. A line from the prophecy rang in
my ears: And see the world in endless sleep. I remembered
Grover’s story about meeting the god Morpheus in Central
Park. You’re lucky I’m saving my energy for the main event.
‘Not dead,’ I said. ‘Morpheus has put the entire island of
Manhattan to sleep. The invasion has started.’
1237
10    I Buy Some New Friends
 
Mrs O’Leary was the only one happy about the sleeping city.
We found her pigging out at an overturned hot-dog stand
while the owner was curled up on the sidewalk, sucking his
thumb.
Argus was waiting for us with his hundred eyes wide open.
He didn’t say anything. He never does. I guess that’s
because he supposedly has an eyeball on his tongue. But
his face made it clear he was freaking out.
I told him what we’d learned in Olympus, and how the
gods would not be riding to the rescue. Argus rolled his eyes
in disgust, which looked pretty psychedelic since it made his
whole body swirl.
‘You’d better get back to camp,’ I told him. ‘Guard it as
best you can.’
He pointed at me and raised his eyebrow quizzically.
‘I’m staying,’ I said.
Argus nodded, like this answer satisﬁed him. He looked at
Annabeth and drew a circle in the air with his ﬁnger.
‘Yes,’ Annabeth agreed. ‘I think it’s time.’
‘For what?’ I asked.
Argus rummaged around in the back of his van. He
brought out a bronze shield and passed it to Annabeth. It
looked pretty much standard issue – the same kind of round
shield we always used in capture the ﬂag. But when
Annabeth set it on the ground, the reﬂection on the polished
metal changed from sky and buildings to the Statue of
Liberty – which wasn’t anywhere close to us.
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘A video shield.’
1238
‘One of Daedalus’s ideas,’ Annabeth said. ‘I had
Beckendorf make this before –’ She glanced at Silena. ‘Um,
anyway, the shield bends sunlight or moonlight from
anywhere in the world to create a reﬂection. You can literally
see any target under the sun or moon, as long as natural
light is touching it. Look.’
We crowded around as Annabeth concentrated. The image
zoomed and spun at ﬁrst, so I got motion sickness just
watching it. We were in the Central Park Zoo, then zooming
down East Sixtieth past Bloomingdale’s, then turning on
Third Avenue.
‘Whoa,’ Connor Stoll said. ‘Back up. Zoom in right there.’
‘What?’ Annabeth said nervously. ‘You see invaders?’
‘No, right there – Dylan’s Candy Bar.’ Connor grinned at
his brother. ‘Dude, it’s open. And everyone is asleep. Are
you thinking what I’m thinking?’
‘Connor!’ Katie Gardner scolded. She sounded like her
mother Demeter. ‘This is serious. You are not going to loot a
candy store in the middle of a war!’
‘Sorry,’ Connor muttered, but he didn’t sound very
ashamed.
Annabeth passed her hand in front of the shield and
another scene popped up: FDR Drive, looking across the
river at Lighthouse Park.
‘This will let us see what’s going on across the city,’ she
said. ‘Thank you, Argus. Hopefully, we’ll see you back at
camp … someday.’
Argus grunted. He gave me a look that clearly meant good
luck – you’ll need it, then climbed into his van. He and the
two harpy drivers swerved away, weaving around clusters of
idle cars that littered the road.
I whistled for Mrs O’Leary and she came bounding over.
‘Hey, girl,’ I said. ‘You remember Grover? The satyr we
met in the park?’
‘WOOF!’
1239
I hoped that meant, Sure I do! And not, Do you have more
hot dogs?
‘I need you to ﬁnd him,’ I said. ‘Make sure he’s still awake.
We’re going to need his help. You got that? Find Grover!’
Mrs O’Leary gave me a sloppy wet kiss, which seemed
kind of unnecessary. Then she raced oﬀ north.
Pollux crouched next to a sleeping policeman. ‘I don’t get
it. Why didn’t we fall asleep too? Why just the mortals?’
‘This is a huge spell,’ Silena Beauregard said. ‘The bigger
the spell, the easier it is to resist. If you want to sleep
millions of mortals, you’ve got to cast a very thin layer of
magic. Sleeping demigods is much harder.’
I stared at her. ‘When did you learn so much about
magic?’
Silena blushed. ‘I don’t spend all my time on my
wardrobe.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth called. She was still looking at the
shield. ‘You’d better see this.’
The bronze image showed Long Island Sound near La
Guardia. A ﬂeet of a dozen speedboats raced through the
dark water towards Manhattan. Each boat was packed with
demigods in full Greek armour. At the back of the lead boat,
a purple banner emblazoned with a black scythe ﬂapped in
the night wind. I’d never seen that design before, but it
wasn’t hard to ﬁgure out: the battle ﬂag of Kronos.
‘Scan the perimeter of the island,’ I said. ‘Quick.’
Annabeth shifted the scene south to the harbour. A Staten
Island ferry was ploughing through the waves near Ellis
Island. The deck was crowded with dracaenae and a whole
pack of hellhounds. Swimming in front of the ship was a pod
of marine mammals. At ﬁrst I thought they were dolphins.
Then I saw their doglike faces and the swords strapped to
their waists, and I realized they were telkhines.
The scene shifted again – the Jersey shore, right at the
entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel. A hundred assorted
monsters were marching past the lanes of stopped traﬃc –
1240
giants with clubs, rogue Cyclopes, a few ﬁre-spitting
dragons and, just to rub it in, a World War II-era Sherman
tank, pushing cars out of its way as it rumbled into the
tunnel.
‘What’s happening with the mortals outside Manhattan?’ I
said. ‘Is the whole state asleep?’
Annabeth frowned. ‘I don’t think so, but it’s strange. As far
as I can tell from these pictures, Manhattan is totally asleep.
Then there’s, like, a ﬁfty-mile radius around the island where
time is running really, really slow. The closer you get to
Manhattan, the slower it is.’
She showed me another scene – a New Jersey highway. It
was Saturday evening, so the traﬃc wasn’t as bad as it
might’ve been on a weekday. The drivers looked awake, but
the cars were moving at about one mile per hour. Birds ﬂew
overhead in slow motion.
‘Kronos,’ I said. ‘He’s slowing time.’
‘Hecate might be helping,’ Katie Gardner said. ‘Look how
the cars are all veering away from the Manhattan exits, like
they’re getting a subconscious message to turn back.’
‘I don’t know.’ Annabeth sounded really frustrated. She
hated not knowing. ‘But somehow they’ve surrounded
Manhattan in layers of magic. The outside world might not
even realize something is wrong. Any mortals coming
towards Manhattan will slow down so much they won’t know
what’s happening.’
‘Like ﬂies in amber,’ Jake Mason murmured.
Annabeth nodded. ‘We shouldn’t expect any help coming
in.’
I turned to my friends. They looked stunned and scared,
and I couldn’t blame them. The shield had shown us at least
three hundred enemies on the way. There were forty of us.
And we were alone.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘We’re going to hold Manhattan.’
Silena tugged at her armour. ‘Um, Percy, Manhattan is
huge.’
1241
‘We are going to hold it,’ I said. ‘We have to.’
‘He’s right,’ Annabeth said. ‘The gods of the wind should
keep Kronos’s forces away from Olympus by air, so he’ll try
a ground assault. We have to cut oﬀ the entrances to the
island.’
‘They have boats,’ Michael Yew pointed out.
An electric tingle went down my back. Suddenly I
understood Athena’s advice: Remember the rivers.
‘I’ll take care of the boats,’ I said.
Michael frowned. ‘How?’
‘Just leave it to me,’ I said. ‘We need to guard the bridges
and tunnels. Let’s assume they’ll try a midtown or
downtown assault, at least on their ﬁrst try. That would be
the most direct way to the Empire State Building. Michael,
take Apollo’s cabin to the Williamsburg Bridge. Katie,
Demeter’s cabin takes the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. Grow
thorn bushes and poison ivy in the tunnel. Do whatever you
have to do – but keep them out of there! Connor – take half
of Hermes cabin and cover the Manhattan Bridge. Travis,
you take the other half and cover the Brooklyn Bridge. And
no stopping for looting or pillaging!’
‘Awwww!’ the whole Hermes cabin complained.
‘Silena, take the Aphrodite crew to the Queens–Midtown
Tunnel.’
‘Oh, my gods,’ one of her sisters said. ‘Fifth Avenue is so
on our way! We could accessorize, and monsters, like,
totally hate the smell of Givenchy.’
‘No delays,’ I said. ‘Well … the perfume thing, if you think
it’ll work.’
Six Aphrodite girls kissed me on the cheek in excitement.
‘All right, enough!’ I closed my eyes, trying to think what
I’d forgotten. ‘The Holland Tunnel. Jake – take Hephaestus
cabin there. Use Greek ﬁre, set traps. Whatever you’ve got.’
He grinned. ‘Gladly. We’ve got a score to settle. For
Beckendorf!’
The whole cabin roared in approval.
1242
‘The Fifty-ninth Street Bridge,’ I said. ‘Clarisse –’
I faltered. Clarisse wasn’t here. The whole Ares cabin,
curse them, was sitting back at camp.
‘We’ll take that.’ Annabeth stepped in, saving me from an
embarrassing silence. She turned to her siblings. ‘Malcolm,
take Athena cabin and activate plan twenty-three along the
way, just like I showed you. Hold that position.’
‘You got it.’
‘I’ll go with Percy,’ she said. ‘Then we’ll join you – or we’ll
go wherever we’re needed.’
Somebody in the back of the group said, ‘No detours, you
two.’
There were some giggles, but I decided to let it pass.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Keep in touch with cell phones.’
‘We don’t have cell phones,’ Silena protested.
I reached down, picked up some snoring lady’s BlackBerry
and tossed it to Silena. ‘You do now. You all know Annabeth’s
number, right? If you need us, pick up a random phone and
call us. Use it once, drop it, then borrow another one if you
have to. That should make it harder for the monsters to zero
in on you.’
Everyone grinned like they liked this idea.
Travis cleared his throat. ‘Uh, if we ﬁnd a really nice phone
–’
‘No, you can’t keep it,’ I said.
‘Aw, man.’
‘Hold it, Percy,’ Jake Mason said. ‘You forgot the Lincoln
Tunnel.’
I bit back a curse. He was right. A Sherman tank and a
hundred monsters were marching through that tunnel right
now, and I’d positioned our forces everywhere else.
Then a girl’s voice called from across the street: ‘How
about you leave that to us?’
I’d never been happier to hear anyone in my life. A band
of thirty adolescent girls crossed Fifth Avenue. They wore
white shirts, silvery camouﬂage pants and combat boots.
1243
They all had swords at their sides, quivers on their backs
and bows at the ready. A pack of white timber wolves milled
around their feet, and many of the girls had hunting falcons
on their arms.
The girl in the lead had spiky black hair and a black
leather jacket. She wore a silver circlet on her head like a
princess’s tiara, which didn’t match her skull earrings or her
Death to Barbie T-shirt showing a little Barbie doll with an
arrow through its head.
‘Thalia!’ Annabeth cried.
The daughter of Zeus grinned. ‘The Hunters of Artemis,
reporting for duty.’
There were hugs and greetings all around – or at least Thalia
was friendly. The other Hunters didn’t like being around
campers, especially boys, but they didn’t shoot any of us,
which for them was a pretty warm welcome.
‘Where have you been the last year?’ I asked Thalia.
‘You’ve got, like, twice as many Hunters now!’
She laughed. ‘Long, long story. I bet my adventures were
more dangerous than yours, Jackson.’
‘Complete lie,’ I said.
‘We’ll see,’ she promised. ‘After this is over, you,
Annabeth and me: cheeseburgers and fries at that hotel on
West Fifty-sixth.’
‘Le Parker Meridien,’ I said. ‘You’re on. And, Thalia –
thanks.’
She shrugged. ‘Those monsters won’t know what hit
them. Hunters, move out!’
She slapped her silver bracelet and the shield Aegis
spiralled into full form. The golden head of Medusa moulded
in the centre was so horrible the campers all backed away.
The Hunters took oﬀ down the avenue, followed by their
wolves and falcons, and I had a feeling the Lincoln Tunnel
would be safe for now.
1244
‘Thank the gods,’ Annabeth said. ‘But if we don’t blockade
the rivers from those boats, guarding the bridges and
tunnels will be pointless.’
‘You’re right,’ I said.
I looked at the campers, all of them grim and determined.
I tried not to feel like this was the last time I’d ever see
them all together.
‘You’re the greatest heroes of this millennium,’ I told
them. ‘It doesn’t matter how many monsters come at you.
Fight bravely, and we will win.’ I raised Riptide and shouted,
‘FOR OLYMPUS!’
They shouted in response, and our forty voices echoed oﬀ
the buildings of midtown. For a moment, it sounded brave,
but it died quickly in the silence of ten million sleeping New
Yorkers.
Annabeth and I would’ve had our pick of cars, but they were
all wedged in bumper-to-bumper traﬃc. None of the engines
were running, which was weird. It seemed the drivers had
had time to turn oﬀ the ignition before they got too sleepy.
Or maybe Morpheus had the power to put engines to sleep
as well. Most of the drivers had apparently tried to pull to
the kerb when they felt themselves passing out, but still the
streets were too clogged to navigate.
Finally we found an unconscious courier leaning against a
brick wall, still straddling his red Vespa. We dragged him oﬀ
the scooter and laid him on the sidewalk.
‘Sorry, dude,’ I said. With any luck, I’d be able to bring his
scooter back. If I didn’t, it would hardly matter, because the
city would be destroyed.
I drove with Annabeth behind me, holding onto my waist.
We zigzagged down Broadway with our engine buzzing
through the eerie calm. The only sounds were occasional
cell phones ringing – like they calling out to each other, as if
New York had turned into a giant electronic aviary.
1245
Our progress was slow. Every so often we’d come across
pedestrians who’d fallen asleep right in front of a car, and
we’d move them just to be safe. Once we stopped to
extinguish a pretzel vendor’s cart that had caught on ﬁre. A
few minutes later we had to rescue a baby carriage that was
rolling aimlessly down the street. It turned out there was no
baby in it – just somebody’s sleeping poodle. Go ﬁgure. We
parked it safely in a doorway and kept riding.
We were passing Madison Square Park when Annabeth
said: ‘Pull over.’
I stopped in the middle of East Twenty-third. Annabeth
jumped oﬀ and ran towards the park. By the time I caught
up with her, she was staring at a bronze statue on a red
marble pedestal. I’d probably passed it a million times, but
never really looked at it.
The dude was sitting in a chair with his legs crossed. He
wore an old-fashioned suit – Abraham Lincoln style – with a
bowtie and long coat-tails and stuﬀ. A bunch of bronze
books were piled under his chair. He held a writing quill in
one hand and a big metal sheet of parchment in the other.
‘Why do we care about …’ I squinted at the name on the
pedestal. ‘William H. Steward?’
‘Seward,’ Annabeth corrected. ‘He was a New York
governor. Minor demigod – son of Hebe, I think. But that’s
not important. It’s the statue I care about.’
She climbed on a park bench and examined the base of
the statue.
‘Don’t tell me he’s an automaton,’ I said.
Annabeth smiled. ‘Turns out most of the statues in the city
are automatons. Daedalus planted them here just in case he
needed an army.’
‘To attack Olympus or defend it?’
Annabeth shrugged. ‘Either one. That was plan twenty-
three. He could activate one statue and it would start
activating its brethren all over the city, until there was an
1246
army. It’s dangerous, though. You know how unpredictable
automatons are.’
‘Uh-huh,’ I said. We’d had our share of bad experiences
with them. ‘You’re seriously thinking about activating it?’
‘I have Daedalus’s notes,’ she said. ‘I think I can  … Ah,
here we go.’
She pressed the tip of Seward’s boot and the statue stood
up, its quill and paper ready.
‘What’s he going to do?’ I muttered. ‘Take a memo?’
‘Shh,’ said Annabeth. ‘Hello, William.’
‘Bill,’ I suggested.
‘Bill – oh, shut up,’ Annabeth told me. The statue tilted its
head, looking at us with blank metal eyes.
Annabeth cleared her throat. ‘Hello, er, Governor Seward.
Command 
sequence: 
Daedalus 
Twenty-three. 
Defend
Manhattan. Begin Activation.’
Seward jumped oﬀ his pedestal. He hit the ground so hard
his shoes cracked the sidewalk. Then he went clanking oﬀ
towards the east.
‘He’s probably going to wake up Confucius,’ Annabeth
guessed.
‘What?’ I said.
‘Another statue on Division. The point is, they’ll keep
waking each other up until they’re all activated.’
‘And then?’
‘Hopefully, they defend Manhattan.’
‘Do they know that we’re not the enemy?’
‘I think so.’
‘That’s reassuring.’ I thought about all the bronze statues
in the parks, plazas and buildings of New York. There had to
be hundreds, maybe thousands.
Then a ball of green light exploded in the evening sky –
Greek ﬁre, somewhere over the East River.
‘We have to hurry,’ I said. And we ran for the Vespa.
1247
We pulled over outside Battery Park, at the lower tip of
Manhattan where the Hudson and East Rivers came
together and emptied into the Bay.
‘Wait here,’ I told Annabeth.
‘Percy, you shouldn’t go alone.’
‘Well, unless you can breathe underwater …’
She sighed. ‘You are so annoying sometimes.’
‘Like when I’m right? Trust me, I’ll be ﬁne. I’ve got the
curse of Achilles now. I’m all invincible and stuﬀ.’
Annabeth didn’t look convinced. ‘Just be careful. I don’t
want anything to happen to you. I mean – because we need
you for the battle.’
I grinned. ‘Back in a ﬂash.’
I clambered down the shoreline and waded into the water.
Just for you non-sea-god types out there – don’t go
swimming in New York Harbor. It may not be as ﬁlthy as it
was in my mom’s day, but that water will still probably
make you grow a third eye or have mutant children when
you grow up.
I dived into the murk and sank to the bottom. I tried to
ﬁnd the spot where the two rivers’ currents seemed equal –
where they met to form the bay. I ﬁgured that was the best
place to get their attention.
‘HEY!’ I shouted in my best underwater voice. The sound
echoed in the darkness. ‘I heard you guys are so polluted
you’re embarrassed to show your faces. Is that true?’
A cold current rippled through the Bay, churning up
plumes of garbage and silt.
‘I heard the East River is more toxic,’ I continued, ‘but the
Hudson smells worse. Or is it the other way around?’
The water shimmered. Something powerful and angry was
watching me now. I could sense its presence  … or maybe
two presences.
I was afraid I’d miscalculated with the insults. What if they
just blasted me without showing themselves? But these
1248
were New York river gods. I ﬁgured their instinct would be to
get in my face.
Sure enough, two giant forms appeared in front of me. At
ﬁrst they were just dark brown columns of silt, denser than
the water around them. Then they grew legs, arms and
scowling faces.
The creature on the left looked disturbingly like a telkhine.
His face was wolﬁsh. His body was vaguely like a seal’s –
sleek black with ﬂipper hands and feet. His eyes glowed
radiation green.
The dude on the right was more humanoid. He was
dressed in rags and seaweed, with a chainmail coat made of
bottle caps and old plastic six-pack holders. His face was
blotchy with algae, and his beard was overgrown. His deep
blue eyes burned with anger.
The seal, who had to be the god of the East River, said,
‘Are you trying to get yourself killed, kid? Or are you just
extra stupid?’
The bearded spirit of the Hudson scoﬀed. ‘You’re the
expert on stupid, East.’
‘Watch it, Hudson,’ East growled. ‘Stay on your side of the
island and mind your business.’
‘Or what? You’ll throw another garbage barge at me?’
They ﬂoated towards each other, ready to ﬁght.
‘Hold it!’ I yelled. ‘We’ve got a bigger problem.’
‘The kid’s right,’ East snarled. ‘Let’s both kill him, then
we’ll ﬁght each other.’
‘Sounds good,’ Hudson said.
Before I could protest, a thousand scraps of garbage
surged oﬀ the bottom and ﬂew straight at me from both
directions – broken glass, rocks, cans, tyres.
I was expecting it, though. The water in front of me
thickened into a shield. The debris bounced oﬀ harmlessly.
Only one piece got through – a big chunk of glass that hit
my chest and probably should’ve killed me, but it shattered
against my skin.
1249
The two river gods stared at me.
‘Son of Poseidon?’ East asked.
I nodded.
‘Took a dip in the Styx?’ Hudson asked.
‘Yep.’
They both made disgusted sounds.
‘Well, that’s perfect,’ East said. ‘Now how do we kill him?’
‘We could electrocute him,’ Hudson mused. ‘If I could just
ﬁnd some jumper cables –’
‘Listen to me!’ I said. ‘Kronos’s army is invading
Manhattan!’
‘Don’t you think we know that?’ East asked. ‘I can feel his
boats right now. They’re almost across.’
‘Yep,’ Hudson agreed. ‘I got some ﬁlthy monsters crossing
my waters, too.’
‘So stop them,’ I said. ‘Drown them. Sink their boats.’
‘Why should we?’ Hudson grumbled. ‘So they invade
Olympus. What do we care?’
‘Because I can pay you.’ I took out the sand dollar my
father had given me for my birthday.
The river gods’ eyes widened.
‘It’s mine!’ East said. ‘Give it here, kid, and I promise none
of Kronos’s scum are getting across the East River.’
‘Forget that,’ Hudson said. ‘That sand dollar’s mine, unless
you want me to let all those ships cross the Hudson.’
‘We’ll compromise.’ I broke the sand dollar in half. A ripple
of clean fresh water spread out from the break, as if all the
pollution in the Bay was being dissolved.
‘You each get half,’ I said. ‘In exchange, you keep all of
Kronos’s forces away from Manhattan.’
‘Oh, man,’ Hudson whimpered, reaching out for the sand
dollar. ‘It’s been so long since I was clean.’
‘The power of Poseidon,’ East River murmured. ‘He’s a
jerk, but he sure knows how to sweep pollution away.’
They looked at each other, then spoke as one: ‘It’s a deal.’
1250
I gave them each half of the sand dollar, which they held
reverently.
‘Um, the invaders?’ I prompted.
East ﬂicked his hand. ‘They just got sunk.’
Hudson snapped his ﬁngers. ‘Bunch of hellhounds just
took a dive.’
‘Thank you,’ I said. ‘Stay clean.’
As I rose towards the surface, East called out, ‘Hey, kid,
any time you got a sand dollar to spend, come on back.
Assuming you live.’
‘Curse of Achilles,’ Hudson snorted. ‘They always think
that’ll save them, don’t they?’
‘If only he knew,’ East agreed. They both laughed,
dissolving into the water.
Back on the shore, Annabeth was talking on her cell phone,
but she hung up as soon as she saw me. She looked pretty
shaken.
‘It worked,’ I told her. ‘The rivers are safe.’
‘Good,’ she said. ‘Because we’ve got other problems.
Michael Yew just called. Another army is marching over the
Williamsburg Bridge. The Apollo cabin needs help. And,
Percy, the monster leading the enemy … it’s the Minotaur.’
1251
11    We Break a Bridge
 
Fortunately, Blackjack was on duty.
I did my best taxicab whistle, and within a few minutes
two dark shapes circled out of the sky. They looked like
hawks at ﬁrst, but as they descended, I could make out the
long galloping legs of pegasi.
Yo, boss. Blackjack landed at a trot, his friend Porkpie right
behind him. Man, I thought those wind gods were gonna
knock us to Pennsylvania until we said we were with you!
‘Thanks for coming,’ I told him. ‘Hey, why do pegasi gallop
as they ﬂy, anyway?’
Blackjack whinnied. Why do humans swing their arms as
they walk? I dunno, boss. It just feels right. Where to?
‘We need to get to the Williamsburg Bridge,’ I said.
Blackjack lowered his neck. You’re darn right, boss. We
ﬂew over it on the way here and it don’t look good. Hop on!
On the way to the bridge, a knot formed in the pit of my
stomach. The Minotaur was one of the ﬁrst monsters I’d
ever defeated. Four years ago he’d nearly killed my mother
on Half-Blood Hill. I still had nightmares about that.
I’d been hoping he would stay dead for a few centuries,
but I should’ve known my luck wouldn’t hold.
We saw the battle before we were close enough to make
out individual ﬁghters. It was well after midnight now, but
the bridge blazed with light. Cars were burning. Arcs of ﬁre
streamed in both directions as ﬂaming arrows and spears
sailed through the air.
1252
We came in for a low pass, and I saw the Apollo campers
retreating. They would hide behind cars and snipe at the
approaching army, setting oﬀ explosive arrows and dropping
caltrops in the road, building ﬁery barricades wherever they
could, dragging sleeping drivers out of their cars to get
them out of harm’s way. But the enemy kept advancing. An
entire phalanx of dracaenae marched in the lead, their
shields locked together, spear tips bristling over the top. An
occasional arrow would connect with their snaky trunks, or a
neck, or a chink in their armour, and the unlucky snake
woman would disintegrate, but most of the Apollo arrows
glanced harmlessly oﬀ their shield wall. About a hundred
more monsters marched behind them.
Hellhounds leaped ahead of the line from time to time.
Most were destroyed with arrows, but one got hold of an
Apollo camper and dragged him away. I didn’t see what
happened to him next. I didn’t want to know.
‘There!’ Annabeth called from the back of her pegasus.
Sure enough, in the middle of the invading legion was Old
Beefhead himself.
The last time I’d seen the Minotaur, he’d been wearing
nothing but his tighty whities. I don’t know why. Maybe he’d
been shaken out of bed to chase me. This time, he was
prepared for battle.
From the waist down, he wore standard Greek battle gear
– a kilt-like apron of leather and metal ﬂaps, bronze greaves
covering his legs and tightly wrapped leather sandals. His
top was all bull – hair and hide and muscle, leading to a
head so large he should’ve toppled over just from the
weight of his horns. He seemed larger than the last time I’d
seen him – three metres tall at least. A double-bladed axe
was strapped to his back, but he was too impatient to use it.
As soon as he saw me circling overhead (or sniﬀed me more
likely, since his eyesight was bad), he bellowed and picked
up a white limousine.
‘Blackjack, dive!’ I yelled.
1253
What? the pegasus asked. No way could he – holy horse
feed!
We were at least thirty metres up, but the limo came
sailing towards us, ﬂipping fender over fender like a twoton
boomerang. Annabeth and Porkpie swerved madly to the
left, while Blackjack tucked in his wings and plunged. The
limo sailed over my head, missing by maybe ﬁve
centimetres. It cleared the suspension lines of the bridge
and fell towards the East River.
Monsters jeered and shouted, and the Minotaur picked up
another car.
‘Drop us behind the lines with the Apollo cabin,’ I told
Blackjack. ‘Stay in earshot, but get out of danger!’
I ain’t gonna argue, boss!
Blackjack swooped down behind an overturned school bus
where a couple of campers were hiding. Annabeth and I
leaped oﬀ as soon as our pegasi’s hooves touched the
pavement. Then Blackjack and Porkpie soared into the night
sky.
Michael Yew ran up to us. He was deﬁnitely the shortest
commando I’d ever seen. He had a bandaged cut on his
arm. His ferrety face was smeared with soot and his quiver
was almost empty, but he was smiling like he was having a
great time.
‘Glad you could join us,’ he said. ‘Where are the other
reinforcements?’
‘For now, we’re it,’ I said.
‘Then we’re dead,’ he said.
‘You still have your ﬂying chariot?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Nah,’ Michael said. ‘Left it at camp. I told Clarisse she
could have it. Whatever, you know? Not worth ﬁghting
about any more. But she said it was too late. We’d insulted
her honour for the last time or some stupid thing.’
‘Least you tried,’ I said.
Michael shrugged. ‘Yeah, well, I called her some names
when she said she still wouldn’t ﬁght. I doubt that helped.
1254
Here come the uglies!’
He drew an arrow and launched it towards the enemy. The
arrow made a screaming sound as it ﬂew. When it landed, it
unleashed a blast like a power chord on an electric guitar
magniﬁed through the world’s largest speakers. The nearest
cars exploded. Monsters dropped their weapons and clasped
their ears in pain. Some ran. Others disintegrated on the
spot.
‘That was my last sonic arrow,’ Michael said.
‘A gift from your dad?’ I asked. ‘God of music?’
Michael grinned wickedly. ‘Loud music can be bad for you.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t always kill.’
Sure enough, most monsters were regrouping, shaking oﬀ
their confusion.
‘We have to fall back,’ Michael said. ‘I’ve got Kayla and
Austin setting traps further down the bridge.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘Bring your campers forward to this position
and wait for my signal. We’re going to drive the enemy back
to Brooklyn.’
Michael laughed. ‘How do you plan to do that?’
I drew my sword.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, ‘let me come with you.’
‘Too dangerous,’ I said. ‘Besides, I need you to help
Michael coordinate the defensive line. I’ll distract the
monsters. You group up here. Move the sleeping mortals out
of the way. Then you can start picking oﬀ monsters while I
keep them focused on me. If anybody can do all that, you
can.’
Michael snorted. ‘Thanks a lot.’
I kept my eyes on Annabeth.
She nodded reluctantly. ‘All right. Get moving.’
Before I could lose my courage, I said, ‘Don’t I get a kiss
for luck? It’s kind of a tradition, right?’
I ﬁgured she would punch me. Instead, she drew her knife
and stared at the army marching towards us. ‘Come back
alive, Seaweed Brain. Then we’ll see.’
1255
I ﬁgured it was the best oﬀer I would get, so I stepped out
from behind the school bus. I walked up the bridge in plain
sight, straight towards the enemy.
When the Minotaur saw me, his eyes burned with hate. He
bellowed – a sound that was somewhere between a yell, a
moo and a really loud belch.
‘Hey, Beef Boy,’ I shouted back. ‘Didn’t I kill you already?’
He pounded his ﬁst into the hood of a Lexus and it
crumpled like tinfoil.
A few dracaenae threw ﬂaming javelins at me. I knocked
them aside. A hellhound lunged and I sidestepped. I could
have stabbed it, but I hesitated.
This is not Mrs O’Leary, I reminded myself. This is an
untamed monster. It will kill me and all my friends.
It pounced again. This time, I brought Riptide up in a
deadly arc. The hellhound disintegrated into dust and fur.
More monsters surged forward – snakes and giants and
telkhines – but the Minotaur roared at them and they
backed oﬀ.
‘One on one?’ I called. ‘Just like old times?’
The Minotaur’s nostrils quivered. He seriously needed to
keep a pack of Aloe Vera Kleenex in his armour pocket,
because that nose was wet and red and pretty gross. He
unstrapped his axe and swung it around.
It was beautiful in a harsh I’m going to gut you like a ﬁsh
kind of way. Each of its twin blades was shaped like an
omega – 
 – the last letter of the Greek alphabet. Maybe
that was because the axe would be the last thing his victims
ever saw. The shaft was about the same height as the
Minotaur, bronze wrapped in leather. Tied around the base
of each blade were lots of bead necklaces. I realized they
were Camp Half-Blood beads – necklaces taken from
defeated demigods.
I was so mad I imagined my eyes glowing just like the
Minotaur’s. I raised my sword. The monster army cheered
1256
for the Minotaur, but the sound died when I dodged his ﬁrst
swing and sliced his axe in half, right between the
handholds.
‘Moo?’ he grunted.
‘HAAA!’ I spun and kicked him in the snout. He staggered
backwards, trying to regain his footing, then lowered his
head to charge.
He never got the chance. My sword ﬂashed – slicing oﬀ
one horn, then the other. He tried to grab me. I rolled away,
picking up half of his broken axe. The other monsters
backed up in stunned silence, making a circle around us.
The Minotaur bellowed in rage. He was never very smart to
begin with, but now his anger made him reckless. He
charged me and I ran for the edge of the bridge, breaking
through a line of dracaenae.
The Minotaur must’ve smelled victory. He thought I was
trying to get away. His minions cheered. At the edge of the
bridge, I turned and braced the axe against the railing to
receive his charge. The Minotaur didn’t even slow down.
CRUNCH.
He looked down in surprise at the axe handle sprouting
from his breastplate.
‘Thanks for playing,’ I told him.
I lifted him by his legs and tossed him over the side of the
bridge. Even as he fell, he was disintegrating, turning back
into dust, his essence returning to Tartarus.
I turned towards his army. It was now roughly one hundred
and ninety-nine to one. I did the natural thing. I charged
them.
You’re going to ask how the ‘invincible’ thing worked – if I
magically dodged every weapon, or if the weapons hit me
and just didn’t harm me. Honestly, I don’t remember. All I
knew was that I wasn’t going to let these monsters invade
my hometown.
1257
I sliced through armour like it was made of paper. Snake-
women exploded. Hellhounds melted to shadow. I slashed
and stabbed and whirled and I might have even laughed
once or twice – a crazy laugh that scared me as much as it
did my enemies. I was aware of the Apollo campers behind
me shooting arrows, disrupting every attempt by the enemy
to rally. Finally the monsters turned and ﬂed – about twenty
left alive out of two hundred.
I followed with the Apollo campers at my heels.
‘Yes!’ yelled Michael Yew. ‘That’s what I’m talking about!’
We drove them back towards the Brooklyn side of the
bridge. The sky was growing pale in the east. I could see the
toll stations ahead.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘You’ve already routed them. Pull
back! We’re overextended!’
Some part of me knew she was right, but I was doing so
well. I wanted to destroy every last monster.
Then I saw the crowd at the base of the bridge. The
retreating monsters were running straight towards their
reinforcements. It was small group, maybe thirty or forty
demigods in battle armour, mounted on skeletal horses. One
of them held a purple banner with the black scythe design.
The lead horseman trotted forward. He took oﬀ his helm
and I recognized Kronos himself, his eyes like molten gold.
Annabeth and the Apollo campers faltered. The monsters
we’d been pursuing reached the Titan’s line and were
absorbed into the new force. Kronos gazed in our direction.
He was a quarter of a mile away, but I swear I could see him
smile.
‘Now,’ I said, ‘we pull back.’
The Titan lord’s men drew their swords and charged. The
hooves of their skeletal horses thundered against the
pavement. Our archers shot a volley, bringing down several
of the enemy, but they just kept riding.
‘Retreat!’ I told my friends. ‘I’ll hold them!’
In a matter of seconds they were on me.
1258
Michael and his archers tried to retreat, but Annabeth
stayed right beside me, ﬁghting with her knife and mirrored
shield as we slowly backed up the bridge.
Kronos’s cavalry swirled around us, slashing and yelling
insults. The Titan himself advanced leisurely, like he had all
the time in the world. Being the Lord of Time, I guess he did.
I tried to wound his men, not kill. That slowed me down,
but these weren’t monsters. They were demigods who’d
fallen under Kronos’s spell. I couldn’t see faces under their
battle helmets, but some of them had probably been my
friends. I slashed the legs oﬀ their horses and made the
skeletal mounts disintegrate. After the ﬁrst few demigods
took a spill, the rest ﬁgured out they’d better dismount and
ﬁght me on foot.
Annabeth and I stayed shoulder to shoulder, facing
opposite directions. A dark shape passed over me and I
dared to glance up. Blackjack and Porkpie were swooping in,
kicking our enemies in the helmets and ﬂying away like very
large kamikaze pigeons.
We’d almost made it to the middle of the bridge when
something strange happened. I felt a chill down my spine –
like that old saying about someone walking on your grave.
Behind me, Annabeth cried out in pain.
‘Annabeth!’ I turned in time to see her fall, clutching her
arm. A demigod with a bloody knife stood over her.
In a ﬂash, I understood what had happened. He’d been
trying to stab me. Judging from the position of his blade, he
would’ve taken me – maybe by sheer luck – in the small of
my back, my only weak point.
Annabeth had intercepted the knife with her own body.
But why? She didn’t know about my weak spot. No one
did.
I locked eyes with the enemy demigod. He wore an eye
patch under his war helm: Ethan Nakamura, the son of
Nemesis. Somehow he’d survived the explosion on the
1259
Princess Andromeda. I slammed him in the face with my
sword hilt so hard I dented his helm.
‘Get back!’ I slashed the air in a wide arc, driving the rest
of the demigods away from Annabeth. ‘No one touches her!’
‘Interesting,’ Kronos said.
He towered above me on his skeletal horse, his scythe in
one hand. He studied the scene with narrowed eyes as if he
could sense that I’d just come close to death, the way a wolf
can smell fear.
‘Bravely fought, Percy Jackson,’ he said. ‘But it’s time to
surrender – or the girl dies.’
‘Percy, don’t,’ Annabeth groaned. Her shirt was soaked
with blood. I had to get her out of here.
‘Blackjack!’ I yelled.
As fast as light, the pegasus swooped down and clamped
his teeth on the straps of Annabeth’s armour. They soared
away over the river before the enemy could even react.
Kronos snarled. ‘Some day soon, I am going to make
pegasus soup. But in the meantime …’ He dismounted, his
scythe glistening in the dawn light. ‘I’ll settle for another
dead demigod.’
I met his ﬁrst strike with Riptide. The impact shook the
entire bridge, but I held my ground. Kronos’s smile wavered.
With a yell, I kicked his legs out from under him. His
scythe skittered across the pavement. I stabbed downward,
but he rolled aside and regained his footing. His scythe ﬂew
back to his hands.
‘So  …’ He studied me, looking mildly annoyed. ‘You had
the courage to visit the Styx. I had to pressure Luke in many
ways to convince him. If only you had supplied my host
body instead … but no matter. I am still more powerful. I am
a TITAN.’
He struck the bridge with the butt of his scythe, and a
wave of pure force blasted me backwards. Cars went
careening. Demigods – even Luke’s own men – were blown
1260
oﬀ the edge of the bridge. Suspension cords whipped
around and I skidded halfway back to Manhattan.
I got unsteadily to my feet. The remaining Apollo campers
had almost made it to the end of the bridge – except for
Michael Yew, who was perched on one of the suspension
cables a few metres away from me. His last arrow was
notched in his bow.
‘Michael, go!’ I screamed.
‘Percy, the bridge!’ he called. ‘It’s already weak!’
At ﬁrst I didn’t understand. Then I looked down and saw
ﬁssures in the pavement. Patches of the road were half
melted from Greek ﬁre. The bridge had taken a beating from
Kronos’s blast and the exploding arrows.
‘Break it!’ Michael yelled. ‘Use your powers!’
It was a desperate thought – no way it would work – but I
stabbed Riptide into the bridge. The magic blade sank to its
hilt in tarmac. Salt water shot from the crack like I’d hit a
geyser. I pulled out my blade and the ﬁssure grew. The
bridge shook and began to crumble. Chunks the size of
houses fell into the East River. Kronos’s demigods cried out
in alarm and scrambled backwards. Some were knocked oﬀ
their feet. Within a few seconds, a twenty-metre chasm
opened in the Williamsburg Bridge between Kronos and me.
The vibrations died. Kronos’s men crept to the edge and
looked at the forty-metre drop into the river.
I didn’t feel safe, though. The suspension cables were still
attached. The men could get across that way if they were
brave enough. Or maybe Kronos had a magic way to span
the gap.
The Titan lord studied the problem. He looked behind him
at the rising sun, then smiled across the chasm. He raised
his scythe in a mock salute. ‘Until this evening, Jackson.’
He mounted his horse, whirled around and galloped back
to Brooklyn followed by his warriors.
I turned to thank Michael Yew, but the words died in my
throat. Five metres away, a bow lay in the street. Its owner
1261
was nowhere to be seen.
‘No!’ I searched the wreckage on my side of the bridge. I
stared down at the river. Nothing.
I yelled in anger and frustration. The sound carried forever
in the morning stillness. I was about to whistle for Blackjack
to help me search when my mom’s phone rang. The LCD
display said I had a call from Finklestein & Associates –
probably a demigod calling on a borrowed phone.
I picked up, hoping for good news. Of course, I was wrong.
‘Percy?’ Silena Beauregard sounded like she’d been
crying. ‘Plaza Hotel. You’d better come quickly and bring a
healer from Apollo’s cabin. It’s … it’s Annabeth.’
1262
12    Rachel Makes a Bad Deal
 
I grabbed Will Solace from the Apollo cabin and told the rest
of his siblings to keep searching for Michael Yew. We
borrowed a Yamaha FZI from a sleeping biker and drove to
the Plaza Hotel at speeds that would’ve given my mom a
heart attack. I’d never driven a motorcycle before, but it
wasn’t any harder than riding a pegasus.
Along the way, I noticed a lot of empty pedestals that
usually held statues. Plan twenty-three seemed to be
working. I didn’t know if that was good or bad.
It only took us ﬁve minutes to reach the Plaza – an old-
fashioned white stone hotel with a gabled blue roof, sitting
at the south-east corner of Central Park.
Tactically speaking, the Plaza wasn’t the best place for a
headquarters. It wasn’t the tallest building in town or the
most centrally located. But it had old-school style and had
attracted a lot of famous demigods over the years, like the
Beatles and Alfred Hitchcock, so I ﬁgured we were in good
company.
I gunned the Yamaha over the kerb and swerved to a stop
at the fountain outside the hotel.
Will and I hopped oﬀ. The statue at the top of the fountain
called down, ‘Oh, ﬁne. I suppose you want me to watch your
bike, too!’
She was a life-size bronze standing in the middle of a
granite bowl. She wore only a bronze sheet around her legs,
and she was holding a basket of metal fruit. I’d never paid
her too much attention before. Then again she’d never
talked to me before.
1263
‘Are you supposed to be Demeter?’ I asked.
A bronze apple sailed over my head.
‘Everyone thinks I’m Demeter!’ she complained. ‘I’m
Pompona, the Roman goddess of plenty, but why should you
care? Nobody cares about the minor gods. If you cared
about the minor gods, you wouldn’t be losing this war!
Three cheers for Morpheus and Hecate, I say!’
‘Watch the bike,’ I told her.
Pompona cursed in Latin and threw more fruit as Will and I
ran towards the hotel.
I’d never actually been inside the Plaza. The lobby was
impressive with the crystal chandeliers and the passed-out
rich people, but I didn’t pay much attention. A couple of
Hunters gave us directions to the elevators, and we rode up
to the penthouse suites.
Demigods had completely taken over the top ﬂoors.
Campers and Hunters were crashed out on sofas, washing
up in the bathrooms, ripping silk draperies to bandage their
wounds and helping themselves to snacks and sodas from
the mini-bars. A couple of timber wolves were drinking out
of the toilets. I was relieved to see that so many of my
friends had made it through the night alive, but everybody
looked beaten up.
‘Percy!’ Jake Mason clapped me on the shoulder. ‘We’re
getting reports –’
‘Later,’ I said. ‘Where’s Annabeth?’
‘The terrace. She’s alive, man, but …’
I pushed past him.
Under diﬀerent circumstances, I would’ve loved the view
from the terrace. It looked straight down onto Central Park.
The morning was clear and bright – perfect for a picnic or a
hike, or pretty much anything except ﬁghting monsters.
Annabeth lay on a lounge chair. Her face was pale and
beaded with sweat. Even though she was covered in
1264
blankets, she shivered. Silena Beauregard was wiping her
forehead with a cool cloth.
Will and I pushed through a crowd of Athena kids. Will
unwrapped Annabeth’s bandages to examine the wound
and I wanted to faint. The bleeding had stopped but the
gash looked deep. The skin around the cut was a horrible
shade of green.
‘Annabeth …’ I choked up. She’d taken that knife for me.
How could I have let that happen?
‘Poison on the dagger,’ she mumbled. ‘Pretty stupid of
me, huh?’
Will Solace exhaled with relief. ‘It’s not so bad, Annabeth.
A few more minutes and we would’ve been in trouble, but
the venom hasn’t gotten past the shoulder yet. Just lie still.
Somebody hand me some nectar.’
I grabbed a ﬂask. Will cleaned out the wound with the
godly drink while I held Annabeth’s hand.
‘Ow,’ she said. ‘Ow, ow!’ She gripped my ﬁngers so tight
they turned purple, but she stayed still like Will asked.
Silena muttered words of encouragement. Will put some
silver paste over the wound and hummed words in Ancient
Greek – a hymn to Apollo. Then he applied fresh bandages
and stood up shakily.
The healing must’ve taken a lot of his energy. He looked
almost as pale as Annabeth.
‘That should do it,’ he said. ‘But we’re going to need some
mortal supplies.’
He grabbed a piece of hotel stationery, jotted down some
notes and handed it to one of the Athena guys. ‘There’s a
pharmacy on Fifth. Normally, I would never steal –’
‘I would,’ Travis volunteered.
Will glared at him. ‘Leave cash or drachmas to pay,
whatever you’ve got, but this is an emergency. I’ve got a
feeling we’re going to have a lot more people to treat.’
Nobody disagreed. There was hardly a single demigod
who hadn’t already been wounded … except me.
1265
‘Come on, guys,’ Travis Stoll said. ‘Let’s give Annabeth
some space. We’ve got a pharmacy to raid – I mean, visit.’
The demigods shuﬄed back inside. Jake Mason grabbed
my shoulder as he was leaving. ‘We’ll talk later, but it’s
under control. I’m using Annabeth’s shield to keep an eye
on things. The enemy withdrew at sunrise; not sure why.
We’ve got a lookout at each bridge and tunnel.’
‘Thanks, man,’ I said.
He nodded. ‘Just take your time.’
He closed the terrace doors behind him – leaving Silena,
Annabeth and me alone.
Silena pressed a cool cloth to Annabeth’s forehead. ‘This
is all my fault.’
‘No,’ Annabeth said weakly. ‘Silena, how is it your fault?’
‘I’ve never been any good at camp,’ she murmured. ‘Not
like you or Percy. If I were a better ﬁghter …’
Her mouth trembled. Ever since Beckendorf died she’d
been getting worse, and every time I looked at her it made
me angry about his death all over again. Her expression
reminded me of glass – like she might break any minute. I
swore to myself that if I ever found the spy who’d cost her
boyfriend his life, I would give him to Mrs O’Leary as a chew
toy.
‘You’re a great camper,’ I told Silena. ‘You’re the best
pegasus rider we have. And you get along with people.
Believe me, anyone who can make friends with Clarisse has
talent.’
She stared at me like I’d just given her an idea. ‘That’s it!
We need the Ares cabin. I can talk to Clarisse. I know I can
convince her to help us.’
‘Whoa, Silena. Even if you could get oﬀ the island, Clarisse
is pretty stubborn. Once she gets angry –’
‘Please,’ Silena said. ‘I can take a pegasus. I know I can
make it back to camp. Let me try.’
I exchanged looks with Annabeth. She nodded slightly.
1266
I didn’t like the idea. I didn’t think Silena stood a chance of
convincing Clarisse to ﬁght. On the other hand, Silena was
so distracted right now that she would just get herself hurt
in battle. Maybe sending her back to camp would give her
something else to focus on.
‘All right,’ I told her. ‘I can’t think of anybody better to try.’
Silena threw her arms around me. Then she pushed back
awkwardly, glancing at Annabeth. ‘Um – sorry. Thank you,
Percy! I won’t let you down!’
Once she was gone, I knelt next to Annabeth and felt her
forehead. She was still burning up.
‘You’re cute when you’re worried,’ she muttered. ‘Your
eyebrows get all scrunched together.’
‘You are not going to die while I owe you a favour,’ I said.
‘Why did you take that knife?’
‘You would’ve done the same for me.’
It was true. I guess we both knew it. Still, I felt like
somebody was poking my heart with a cold metal rod. ‘How
did you know?’
‘Know what?’
I looked around to make sure we were alone. Then I
leaned in close and whispered: ‘My Achilles spot. If you
hadn’t taken that knife, I would’ve died.’
She got a faraway look in her eyes. Her breath smelled of
grapes, maybe from the nectar. ‘I don’t know, Percy. I just
had this feeling you were in danger. Where – where is the
spot?’
I wasn’t supposed to tell anyone. But this was Annabeth. If
I couldn’t trust her, I couldn’t trust anyone.
‘The small of my back.’
She lifted her hand. ‘Where? Here?’
She put her hand on my spine and my skin tingled. I
moved her ﬁngers to the one spot that grounded me to my
mortal life. A thousand volts of electricity seemed to arc
through my body.
‘You saved me,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
1267
She removed her hand but I kept holding it.
‘So you owe me,’ she said weakly. ‘What else is new?’
We watched the sun come up over the city. The traﬃc
should’ve been heavy by now, but there were no cars
honking, no crowds bustling along the sidewalks.
Far away, I could hear a car alarm echo through the
streets. A plume of black smoke curled into the sky
somewhere over Harlem. I wondered how many ovens had
been left on when the Morpheus spell hit; how many people
had fallen asleep in the middle of cooking dinner. Pretty
soon there would be more ﬁres. Everyone in New York was
in danger – and all those lives depended on us.
‘You asked me why Hermes was mad at me,’ Annabeth
said.
‘Hey, you need to rest –’
‘No, I want to tell you. It’s been bothering me for a long
time.’ She moved her shoulder and winced. ‘Last year, Luke
came to see me in San Francisco.’
‘In person?’ I felt like she’d just hit me with a hammer. ‘He
came to your house?’
‘This was before we went into the Labyrinth, before  …’
She faltered, but I knew what she meant: before he turned
into Kronos. ‘He came under a ﬂag of truce. He said he only
wanted ﬁve minutes to talk. He looked scared, Percy. He told
me Kronos was going to use him to take over the world. He
said he wanted to run away, like the old days. He wanted
me to come with him.’
‘But you didn’t trust him.’
‘Of course not. I thought it was a trick. Plus … well, a lot of
things had changed since the old days. I told Luke there was
no way. He got mad. He said – he said I might as well ﬁght
him right there, because it was the last chance I’d get.’
Her forehead broke out in sweat again. The story was
taking too much of her energy.
‘It’s okay,’ I said. ‘Try to get some rest.’
1268
‘You don’t understand, Percy. Hermes was right. Maybe if
I’d gone with him, I could’ve changed his mind. Or – or I had
a knife. Luke was unarmed. I could’ve –’
‘Killed him?’ I said. ‘You know that wouldn’t have been
right.’
She squeezed her eyes shut. ‘Luke said Kronos would use
him like a stepping stone. Those were his exact words.
Kronos would use Luke, and become even more powerful.’
‘He did that,’ I said. ‘He possessed Luke’s body.’
‘But what if Luke’s body is only a transition? What if
Kronos has a plan to become even more powerful? I
could’ve stopped him. The war is my fault.’
Her story made me feel like I was back in the Styx,
slowing dissolving. I remembered last summer, when the
two-headed god Janus had warned Annabeth she would
have to make a major choice – and that had happened after
she saw Luke. Pan had also said something to her: You will
play a great role, though it may not be the role you
imagined.
I wanted to ask her about the vision Hestia had shown me,
about her early days with Luke and Thalia. I knew it had
something to do with my prophecy, but I didn’t understand
what.
Before I could get up my nerve, the terrace door opened.
Connor Stoll stepped through.
‘Percy.’ He glanced at Annabeth, like he didn’t want to say
anything bad in front of her, but I could tell he wasn’t
bringing good news. ‘Mrs O’Leary just came back with
Grover. I think you should talk to him.’
Grover was having a snack in the living room. He was
dressed for battle in an armoured shirt made from tree bark
and twist-ties, with his wooden cudgel and his reed pipes
hanging from his belt.
The Demeter cabin had whipped up a whole buﬀet in the
hotel kitchens – everything from pizza to pineapple ice
1269
cream. Unfortunately, Grover was eating the furniture. He’d
already chewed the stuﬃng oﬀ a fancy chair and was now
gnawing the armrest.
‘Dude,’ I said, ‘we’re only borrowing this place.’
‘Blah-ha-ha!’ He had stuﬃng all over his face. ‘Sorry,
Percy. It’s just … Louis XVI furniture. Delicious. Plus I always
eat furniture when I get –’
‘When you get nervous,’ I said. ‘Yeah, I know. So what’s
up?’
He clopped on his hooves. ‘I heard about Annabeth. Is
she …?’
‘She’s going to be ﬁne. She’s resting.’
Grover took a deep breath. ‘That’s good. I’ve mobilized
most of the nature spirits in the city – well, the ones that will
listen to me, anyway.’ He rubbed his forehead. ‘I had no idea
acorns could hurt so much. Anyway, we’re helping out as
much as we can.’
He told me about the skirmishes they’d seen. Mostly
they’d been covering uptown where we didn’t have enough
demigods. Hellhounds had appeared in all sorts of places,
shadow-travelling inside our lines, and the dryads and
satyrs had been ﬁghting them oﬀ. A young dragon had
appeared in Harlem and a dozen wood nymphs died before
the monster was ﬁnally defeated.
As Grover talked, Thalia entered the room with two of her
lieutenants. She nodded to me grimly, went outside to
check on Annabeth and came back in. She listened while
Grover completed his report – the details getting worse and
worse.
‘We lost twenty satyrs against some giants at Fort
Washington,’ he said, his voice trembling. ‘Almost half my
kinsmen. River spirits drowned the giants in the end, but …’
Thalia shouldered her bow. ‘Percy, Kronos’s forces are still
gathering at every bridge and tunnel. And Kronos isn’t the
only Titan. One of my Hunters spotted a huge man in golden
1270
armour mustering an army on the Jersey shore. I’m not sure
who he is, but he radiates power like only a Titan or god.’
I remembered the golden Titan from my dream – the one
on Mount Othrys who erupted into ﬂames.
‘Great,’ I said. ‘Any good news?’
Thalia shrugged. ‘We’ve sealed oﬀ the subway tunnels
into Manhattan. My best trappers took care of it. Also, it
seems like the enemy is waiting for tonight to attack. I think
Luke –’ she caught herself – ‘I mean Kronos needs time to
regenerate after each ﬁght. He’s still not comfortable with
his new form. It’s taking a lot of his power to slow time
around the city.’
Grover nodded. ‘Most of his forces are more powerful at
night, too. But they’ll be back after sundown.’
I tried to think clearly. ‘Okay. Any word from the gods?’
Thalia shook her head. ‘I know Lady Artemis would be
here if she could. Athena, too. But Zeus has ordered them to
stay at his side. The last I heard, Typhon was destroying the
Ohio River Valley. He should reach the Appalachian
Mountains by midday.’
‘So at best,’ I said, ‘we’ve got another two days before he
arrives.’
Jake Mason cleared his throat. He’d been standing there
so silently I’d almost forgotten he was in the room.
‘Percy, something else,’ he said. ‘The way Kronos showed
up at the Williamsburg Bridge, like he knew you were going
there. And he shifted his forces to our weakest points. As
soon as we deployed, he changed tactics. He barely touched
the Lincoln Tunnel, where the Hunters were strong. He went
for our weakest spots, like he knew.’
‘Like he had inside information,’ I said. ‘The spy.’
‘What spy?’ Thalia demanded.
I told her about the silver charm Kronos had shown me,
the communication device.
‘That’s bad,’ she said. ‘Very bad.’
1271
‘It could be anyone,’ Jake said. ‘We were all standing there
when Percy gave the orders.’
‘But what can we do?’ Grover asked. ‘Frisk every demigod
until we ﬁnd a scythe charm?’
They all looked at me, waiting for a decision. I couldn’t
aﬀord to show how panicked I felt, even if things seemed
hopeless.
‘We keep ﬁghting,’ I said. ‘We can’t obsess about this spy.
If we’re suspicious of each other, we’ll just tear ourselves
apart. You guys were awesome last night. I couldn’t ask for a
braver army. Let’s set up a rotation for the watches. Rest up
while you can. We’ve got a long night ahead of us.’
The demigods mumbled agreement. They went their
separate ways to sleep or eat or repair their weapons.
‘Percy, you too,’ Thalia said. ‘We’ll keep an eye on things.
Go lie down. We need you in good shape for tonight.’
I didn’t argue too hard. I found the nearest bedroom and
crashed on the canopied bed. I thought I was too wired to
sleep, but my eyes closed almost immediately.
In my dream, I saw Nico di Angelo alone in the gardens of
Hades. He’d just dug a hole in one of Persephone’s
ﬂowerbeds, which I didn’t ﬁgure would make the queen very
happy.
He poured a goblet of wine into the hole and began to
chant. ‘Let the dead taste again. Let them rise and take this
oﬀering. Maria di Angelo, show yourself!’
White smoke gathered. A human ﬁgure formed, but it
wasn’t Nico’s mother. It was a girl with dark hair, olive skin
and the silvery clothes of a Hunter.
‘Bianca,’ Nico said. ‘But –’
Don’t summon our mother, Nico, she warned. She is the
one spirit you are forbidden to see.
‘Why?’ he demanded. ‘What’s our father hiding?’
Pain, Bianca said. Hatred. A curse that stretches back to
the Great Prophecy.
1272
‘What do you mean?’ Nico said. ‘I have to know!’
The knowledge will only hurt you. Remember what I said:
holding grudges is a fatal ﬂaw for children of Hades.
‘I know that,’ Nico said. ‘But I’m not the same as I used to
be, Bianca. Stop trying to protect me!’
Brother, you don’t understand –
Nico swiped his hand through the mist, and Bianca’s
image dissipated.
‘Maria di Angelo,’ he said again. ‘Speak to me!’
A diﬀerent image formed. It was a scene rather than a
single ghost. In the mist, I saw Nico and Bianca as little
children, playing in the lobby of an elegant hotel, chasing
each other around marble columns.
A woman sat on a nearby sofa. She wore a black dress,
gloves and a black veiled hat like a star from an old 1940s
movie. She had Bianca’s smile and Nico’s eyes.
On a chair next to her sat a large oily man in a black
pinstripe suit. With a shock, I realized it was Hades. He was
leaning towards the woman, using his hands as he talked
like he was agitated.
‘Please, my dear,’ he said. ‘You must come to the
Underworld. I don’t care what Persephone thinks! I can keep
you safe there.’
‘No, my love.’ She spoke with an Italian accent. ‘Raise our
children in the land of the dead? I will not do this.’
‘Maria, listen to me. The war in Europe has turned the
other gods against me. A prophecy has been made. My
children are no longer safe. Poseidon and Zeus have forced
me into an agreement. None of us are to have demigod
children ever again.’
‘But you already have Nico and Bianca. Surely –’
‘No! The prophecy warns of a child who turns sixteen.
Zeus has decreed that the children I currently have must be
turned over to Camp Half-Blood for proper training, but I
know what he means. At best they’ll be watched,
imprisoned, turned against their father. Even more likely, he
1273
will not take a chance. He won’t allow my demigod children
to reach sixteen. He’ll ﬁnd a way to destroy them, and I
won’t risk that!’
‘Certamente,’ Maria said. ‘We will stay together. Zeus is
un imbecille.’
I couldn’t help admiring her courage, but Hades glanced
nervously at the ceiling. ‘Maria, please. I told you, Zeus
gave me a deadline of last week to turn over the children.
His wrath will be horrible, and I cannot hide you forever. As
long as you are with the children, you are in danger, too.’
Maria smiled, and again it was creepy how much she
looked like her daughter. ‘You are a god, my love. You will
protect us. But I will not take Nico and Bianca to the
Underworld.’
Hades wrung his hands. ‘Then – there is another option. I
know a place in the desert where time stands still. I could
send the children there, just for a while, for their own safety,
and we could be together. I will build you a golden palace by
the Styx.’
Maria di Angelo laughed gently. ‘You are a kind man, my
love. A generous man. The other gods should see you as I
do, and they would not fear you so. But Nico and Bianca
need their mother. Besides, they are only children. The gods
wouldn’t really hurt them.’
‘You don’t know my family,’ Hades said darkly. ‘Please,
Maria, I can’t lose you.’
She touched his lips with her ﬁngers. ‘You will not lose me.
Wait for me while I get my bag. Watch the children.’
She kissed the Lord of the Dead and rose from the sofa.
Hades watched her walk upstairs as if her every step away
caused him pain.
A moment later, he tensed. The children stopped playing
as if they sensed something, too.
‘No!’ Hades said. But even his godly powers were too
slow. He only had time to erect a wall of black energy
around the children before the hotel exploded.
1274
The force was so violent the entire mist image dissolved.
When it came into focus again, I saw Hades kneeling in the
ruins, holding the broken form of Maria di Angelo. Fires still
burned all around him. Lightning ﬂashed across the sky and
thunder rumbled.
Little 
Nico 
and 
Bianca 
stared 
at 
their 
mother
uncomprehendingly. The Fury Alecto appeared behind them,
hissing and ﬂapping her leathery wings. The children didn’t
seem to notice her.
‘Zeus!’ Hades shook his ﬁst at the sky. ‘I will crush you for
this! I will bring her back!’
‘My lord, you cannot,’ Alecto warned. ‘You of all immortals
must respect the laws of death.’
Hades glowed with rage. I thought he would show his true
form and vaporize his own children, but at the last moment
he seemed to regain control.
‘Take them,’ he told Alecto, choking back a sob. ‘Wash
their memories clean in the Lethe and bring them to the
Lotus Hotel. Zeus will not harm them there.’
‘As you wish, my lord,’ Alecto said. ‘And the woman’s
body?’
‘Take her as well,’ he said bitterly. ‘Give her the ancient
rites.’
Alecto, the children and Maria’s body dissolved into
shadows, leaving Hades alone in the ruins.
‘I warned you,’ a new voice said.
Hades turned. A girl in a multicoloured dress stood by the
smouldering remains of the sofa. She had short black hair
and sad eyes. She was no more than twelve. I didn’t know
her, but she looked strangely familiar.
‘You dare come here?’ Hades growled. ‘I should blast you
to dust!’
‘You cannot,’ the girl said. ‘The power of Delphi protects
me.’
With a chill, I realized I was looking at the Oracle of
Delphi, back when she was alive and young. Somehow
1275
seeing her like this was even spookier than seeing her as a
mummy.
‘You’ve killed the woman I loved!’ Hades roared. ‘Your
prophecy brought us to this!’
He loomed over the girl but she didn’t ﬂinch.
‘Zeus ordained the explosion to destroy the children,’ she
said, ‘because you deﬁed his will. I had nothing to do with it.
And I did warn you to hide them sooner.’
‘I couldn’t! Maria would not let me! Besides, they were
innocent.’
‘Nevertheless, they are your children, which makes them
dangerous. Even if you put them away in the Lotus Hotel,
you only delay the problem. Nico and Bianca will never be
able to rejoin the world lest they turn sixteen.’
‘Because of your so-called Great Prophecy. And you have
forced me into an oath to have no other children. You have
left me with nothing!’
‘I foresee the future,’ the girl said. ‘I cannot change it.’
Black ﬁre lit the god’s eyes, and I knew something bad
was coming. I wanted to yell at the girl to hide or run.
‘Then, Oracle, hear the words of Hades,’ he growled.
‘Perhaps I cannot bring back Maria. Nor can I bring you an
early death. But your soul is still mortal, and I can curse
you.’
The girl’s eyes widened. ‘You would not –’
‘I swear,’ Hades said, ‘as long as my children remain
outcasts, as long as I labour under the curse of your Great
Prophecy, the Oracle of Delphi will never have another
mortal host. You will never rest in peace. No other will take
your place. Your body will wither and die, and still the
Oracle’s spirit will be locked inside you. You will speak your
bitter prophecies until you crumble to nothing. The Oracle
will die with you!’
The girl screamed, and the misty image was blasted to
shreds. Nico fell to his knees in Persephone’s garden, his
face white with shock. Standing in front of him was the real
1276
Hades, towering in his black robes and scowling down at his
son.
‘And just what,’ he asked Nico, ‘do you think you’re
doing?’
A black explosion ﬁlled my dreams. Then the scene
changed.
Rachel Elizabeth Dare was walking along a white sand
beach. She wore a swimsuit with a T-shirt wrapped around
her waist. Her shoulders and face were sunburnt.
She knelt and began writing in the surf with her ﬁnger. I
tried to make out the letters. I thought my dyslexia was
acting up until I realized she was writing in Ancient Greek.
That was impossible. The dream had to be false.
Rachel ﬁnished writing a few words and muttered, ‘What
in the world?’
I can read Greek, but I only recognized one word before
the sea washed it away: 
. My name: Perseus.
Rachel stood abruptly and backed away from the surf.
‘Oh, gods,’ she said. ‘That’s what it means.’
She turned and ran, kicking up sand as she raced back to
her family’s villa.
She pounded up the porch steps, breathing hard. Her
father looked up from his Wall Street Journal.
‘Dad.’ Rachel marched up to him. ‘We have to go back.’
Her dad’s mouth twitched, like he was trying to remember
how to smile. ‘Back? We just got here.’
‘There’s trouble in New York. Percy’s in danger.’
‘Did he call you?’
‘No … not exactly. But I know. It’s a feeling.’
Mr Dare folded his newspaper. ‘Your mother and I have
been looking forward to this vacation for a long time.’
‘No you haven’t! You both hate the beach! You’re just too
stubborn to admit it.’
‘Now, Rachel –’
‘I’m telling you something is wrong in New York! The
whole city  … I don’t know what exactly, but it’s under
1277
attack.’
Her father sighed. ‘I think we would’ve heard something
like that on the news.’
‘No,’ Rachel insisted. ‘Not this kind of attack. Have you
had any calls since we got here?’
Her father frowned. ‘No  … but it is the weekend, in the
middle of the summer.’
‘You always get calls,’ Rachel said. ‘You’ve got to admit
that’s strange.’
Her father hesitated. ‘We can’t just leave. We’ve spent a
lot of money.’
‘Look,’ Rachel said. ‘Daddy … Percy needs me. I have to
deliver a message. It’s life or death.’
‘What message? What are you talking about?’
‘I can’t tell you.’
‘Then you can’t go.’
Rachel closed her eyes like she was getting up her
courage. ‘Dad … let me go, and I’ll make a deal with you.’
Mr 
Dare 
sat 
forward. 
Deals 
were 
something 
he
understood. ‘I’m listening.’
‘Clarion Ladies’ Academy. I’ll – I’ll go there in the autumn. I
won’t even complain. But you have to get me back to New
York right now.’
He was silent for a long time. Then he opened his phone
and made a call.
‘Douglas? Prep the plane. We’re leaving for New York.
Yes … immediately.’
Rachel ﬂung her arms around him, and her father seemed
surprised, like she’d never hugged him before.
‘I’ll make it up to you, Dad!’
He smiled, but his expression was chilly. He studied her
like he wasn’t seeing his daughter – just the young lady he
wanted her to be, once Clarion Academy got through with
her.
‘Yes, Rachel,’ he agreed. ‘You most certainly will.’
The scene faded. I mumbled in my sleep: ‘Rachel, no!’
1278
I was still tossing and turning when Thalia shook me
awake.
‘Percy,’ she said. ‘Come on. It’s late afternoon. We’ve got
visitors.’
I sat up, disoriented. The bed was too comfortable, and I
hated sleeping in the middle of the day.
‘Visitors?’ I said.
Thalia nodded grimly. ‘A Titan wants to see you, under a
ﬂag of truce. He has a message from Kronos.’
1279
13    A Titan Brings Me a Present
 
We could see the white ﬂag from half a mile away. It was as
big as a football ﬁeld, carried by a ten-metre-tall giant with
bright blue skin and icy grey hair.
‘A Hyperborean,’ Thalia said. ‘The giants of the north. It’s
a bad sign that they sided with Kronos. They’re usually
peaceful.’
‘You’ve met them?’ I said.
‘Mmm. There’s a big colony in Alberta. You do not want to
get into a snowball ﬁght with those guys.’
As the giant got closer, I could see three human-sized
envoys with him – a half-blood in armour, an empousa
demon with ﬂaming hair in a black dress and a tall man in a
tuxedo. The empousa held the tux dude’s arm, so they
looked like a couple on their way to a Broadway show or
something – except for her ﬂaming hair and fangs.
The group walked leisurely towards the Heckscher
Playground. The swings and ball courts were empty. The
only sound was the fountain on Umpire Rock.
I looked at Grover. ‘The tux dude is the Titan?’
He nodded nervously. ‘He looks like a magician. I hate
magicians. They usually have rabbits.’
I stared at him. ‘You’re scared of bunnies?’
‘Blah-hah-hah! They’re big bullies. Always stealing celery
from defenceless satyrs!’
Thalia coughed.
‘What?’ Grover demanded.
‘We’ll have to work on your bunny phobia later,’ I said.
‘Here they come.’
1280
The man in the tux stepped forward. He was taller than an
average human – well over two metres. His black hair was
tied in a ponytail. Dark round glasses covered his eyes, but
what really caught my attention was the skin on his face. It
was covered in scratches, like he’d been attacked by a small
animal – a really, really mad hamster, maybe.
‘Percy Jackson,’ he said in a silky voice. ‘It’s a great
honour.’
His lady friend the empousa hissed at me. She’d probably
heard how I’d destroyed two of her sisters last summer.
‘My dear,’ Tux Dude said to her. ‘Why don’t you make
yourself comfortable over there, eh?’
She released his arm and drifted over to a park bench.
I glanced at the armed demigod behind Tux Dude. I hadn’t
recognized him in his new helmet, but it was my old
backstabbing buddy Ethan Nakamura. His nose looked like a
squashed tomato from our ﬁght on the Williamsburg Bridge.
That made me feel better.
‘Hey, Ethan,’ I said. ‘You’re looking good.’
Ethan glared at me.
‘To business.’ Tux Dude extended his hand. ‘I am
Prometheus.’
I was too surprised to shake. ‘The ﬁre-stealer guy? The
chained-to-the-rock-with-the-vultures guy?’
Prometheus winced. He touched the scratches on his face.
‘Please, don’t mention the vultures. But, yes, I stole ﬁre
from the gods and gave it to your ancestors. In return, the
ever merciful Zeus had me chained to a rock and tortured
for all eternity.’
‘But –’
‘How did I get free? Hercules did that, aeons ago. So you
see, I have a soft spot for heroes. Some of you can be quite
civilized.’
‘Unlike the company you keep,’ I noticed.
I was looking at Ethan, but Prometheus apparently
thought I meant the empousa.
1281
‘Oh, demons aren’t so bad,’ he said. ‘You just have to keep
them well fed. Now, Percy Jackson, let us parley.’
He waved me towards a picnic table and we sat down.
Thalia and Grover stood behind me.
The blue giant propped his white ﬂag against a tree and
began absently playing on the playground. He stepped on
the monkey bars and crushed them, but he didn’t seem
angry. He just frowned and said, ‘Uh-oh.’ Then he stepped in
the fountain and broke the concrete bowl in half. ‘Uhoh.’ The
water froze where his foot touched it. A bunch of stuﬀed
animals hung from his belt – the huge kind you get for grand
prizes at an arcade. He reminded me of Tyson, and the idea
of ﬁghting him made me sad.
Prometheus sat forward and laced his ﬁngers. He looked
earnest, kindly and wise. ‘Percy, your position is weak. You
know you can’t stop another assault.’
‘We’ll see.’
Prometheus looked pained, like he really cared what
happened to me. ‘Percy, I’m the Titan of forethought. I know
what’s going to happen.’
‘Also the Titan of crafty counsel,’ Grover put in. ‘Emphasis
on crafty.’
Prometheus 
shrugged. 
‘True 
enough, 
satyr. 
But 
I
supported the gods in the last war. I told Kronos: “You don’t
have the strength. You’ll lose.” And I was right. So you see I
know how to pick the winning side. This time, I’m backing
Kronos.’
‘Because Zeus chained you to a rock,’ I guessed.
‘Partly, yes. I won’t deny I want revenge. But that’s not
the only reason I’m supporting Kronos. It’s the wisest
choice. I’m here because I thought you might listen to
reason.’
He drew a map on the table with his ﬁnger. Wherever he
touched, golden lines appeared, glowing on the concrete.
‘This is Manhattan. We have armies here, here, here and
1282
here. We know your numbers. We outnumber you twenty to
one.’
‘Your spy has been keeping you posted,’ I guessed.
Prometheus smiled apologetically. ‘At any rate, our forces
are growing daily. Tonight, Kronos will attack. You will be
overwhelmed. You’ve fought bravely, but there’s just no way
you can hold all of Manhattan. You’ll be forced to retreat to
the Empire State Building. There you’ll be destroyed. I have
seen this. It will happen.’
I thought about the picture Rachel had drawn in my
dreams – an army at the base of the Empire State Building. I
remembered the words of the young girl Oracle in my
dream: I foresee the future. I cannot change it. Prometheus
spoke with such certainty it was hard not to believe him.
‘I won’t let it happen,’ I said.
Prometheus 
brushed 
a 
speck 
oﬀ 
his 
tux 
lapel.
‘Understand, Percy. You are reﬁghting the Trojan War here.
Patterns repeat themselves in history. They reappear just as
monsters do. A great siege. Two armies. The only diﬀerence
is, this time you are defending. You are Troy. And you know
what happened to the Trojans, don’t you?’
‘So you’re going to cram a wooden horse into the elevator
at the Empire State Building?’ I asked. ‘Good luck.’
Prometheus smiled. ‘Troy was completely destroyed,
Percy. You don’t want that to happen here. Stand down, and
New York will be spared. Your forces will be granted
amnesty. I will personally assure your safety. Let Kronos take
Olympus. Who cares? Typhon will destroy the gods anyway.’
‘Right,’ I said. ‘And I’m supposed to believe Kronos would
spare the city.’
‘All he wants is Olympus,’ Prometheus promised. ‘The
might of the gods is tied to their seats of power. You saw
what happened to Poseidon once his undersea palace was
attacked.’
I winced, remembering how old and decrepit my father
looked.
1283
‘Yes,’ Prometheus said sadly. ‘I know that was hard for
you. When Kronos destroys Olympus, the gods will fade.
They will become so weak they will be easily defeated.
Kronos would rather do this while Typhon has the Olympians
distracted in the west. Much easier. Fewer lives lost. But,
make no mistake, the best you can do is slow us down. The
day after tomorrow, Typhon arrives in New York, and you will
have no chance at all. The gods and Mount Olympus will still
be destroyed, but it will be much messier. Much, much
worse for you and your city. Either way, the Titans will rule.’
Thalia pounded her ﬁst on the table. ‘I serve Artemis. The
Hunters will ﬁght to our last breath. Percy, you’re not
seriously going to listen to this slimeball, are you?’
I ﬁgured Prometheus was going to blast her, but he just
smiled. ‘Your courage does you credit, Thalia Grace.’
Thalia stiﬀened. ‘That’s my mother’s surname. I don’t use
it.’
‘As you wish,’ Prometheus said casually, but I could tell
he’d got under her skin. I’d never even heard Thalia’s last
name before. Somehow it made her seem almost normal.
Less mysterious and powerful.
‘At any rate,’ the Titan said, ‘you need not be my enemy. I
have always been a helper of mankind.’
‘That’s a load of Minotaur dung,’ Thalia said. ‘When
mankind ﬁrst sacriﬁced to the gods, you tricked them into
giving you the best portion. You gave us ﬁre to annoy the
gods, not because you cared about us.’
Prometheus shook his head. ‘You don’t understand. I
helped shape your nature.’
A wiggling lump of clay appeared in his hands. He
fashioned it into a little doll with legs and arms. The lump
man didn’t have any eyes, but it groped around the table,
stumbling 
over 
Prometheus’s 
ﬁngers. 
‘I 
have 
been
whispering in man’s ear since the beginning of your
existence. I represent your curiosity, your sense of
exploration, your inventiveness. Help me save you, Percy.
1284
Do this, and I will give mankind a new gift – a new revelation
that will move you as far forward as ﬁre did. You can’t make
that kind of advance under the gods. They would never
allow it. But this could be a new golden age for you. Or …’
He made a ﬁst and smashed the clay man into a pancake.
The blue giant rumbled, ‘Uh-oh.’ Over at the park bench,
the empousa bared her fangs in a smile.
‘Percy, you know the Titans and their oﬀspring are not all
bad,’ Prometheus said. ‘You’ve met Calypso.’
My face felt hot. ‘That’s diﬀerent.’
‘How? Much like me, she did nothing wrong, and yet she
was exiled forever simply because she was Atlas’s daughter.
We are not your enemies. Don’t let the worst happen,’ he
pleaded. ‘We oﬀer you peace.’
I looked at Ethan Nakamura. ‘You must hate this.’
‘I don’t know what you mean,’ said Ethan.
‘If we took this deal, you wouldn’t get revenge. You
wouldn’t get to kill us all. Isn’t that what you want?’
His good eye ﬂared. ‘All I want is respect, Jackson. The
gods never gave me that. You wanted me to go to your
stupid camp, spend my time crammed into the Hermes
cabin because I’m not important? Not even recognized?’
He sounded just like Luke when he’d tried to kill me in the
woods at camp four years ago. The memory made my hand
ache where the pit scorpion had stung me.
‘Your mom’s the goddess of revenge,’ I told Ethan. ‘We
should respect that?’
‘Nemesis stands for balance! When people have too much
good luck, she tears them down.’
‘Which is why she took your eye?’
‘It was payment,’ he growled. ‘In exchange, she swore to
me that one day, I would tip the balance of power. I would
bring the minor gods respect. An eye was a small price to
pay.’
‘Great mom.’
1285
‘At least she keeps her word, unlike the Olympians. She
always pays her debts – good or evil.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘So I saved your life, and you repaid me by
raising Kronos. That’s fair.’
Ethan grabbed the hilt of his sword, but Prometheus
stopped him.
‘Now, now,’ the Titan said. ‘We’re on a diplomatic
mission.’
Prometheus studied me as if trying to understand my
anger. Then he nodded like he’d just picked a thought from
my brain.
‘It bothers you what happened to Luke,’ he decided.
‘Hestia didn’t show you the full story. Perhaps if you
understood …’
The Titan reached out.
Thalia cried a warning, but before I could react
Prometheus’s index ﬁnger touched my forehead.
Suddenly I was back in May Castellan’s living room. Candles
ﬂickered on the ﬁreplace mantel, reﬂecting in the mirrors
along the walls. Through the kitchen doorway I could see
Thalia sitting at the table while Ms Castellan bandaged her
wounded leg. Seven-year-old Annabeth sat next to her,
playing with a Medusa beanbag toy.
Hermes and Luke stood apart in the living room.
The god’s face looked liquid in the candlelight, like he
couldn’t decide what shape to adopt. He was dressed in a
navy blue jogging outﬁt with winged Reeboks.
‘Why show yourself now?’ Luke demanded. His shoulders
were tense as if he expected a ﬁght. ‘All these years I’ve
been calling to you, praying you’d show up, and nothing.
You left me with her.’ He pointed towards the kitchen like he
couldn’t bear to look at his mother, much less say her
name.
‘Luke, do not dishonour her,’ Hermes warned. ‘Your
mother did the best she could. As for me, I could not
1286
interfere with your path. The children of the gods must ﬁnd
their own way.’
‘So it was for my own good. Growing up on the streets,
fending for myself, ﬁghting monsters.’
‘You’re my son,’ Hermes said. ‘I knew you had the ability.
When I was only a baby, I crawled from my cradle and set
out for –’
‘I’m not a god! Just once, you could’ve said something.
You could’ve helped when –’ he took an unsteady breath,
lowering his voice so no one in the kitchen could overhear ‘–
when she was having one of her ﬁts, shaking me and saying
crazy things about my fate. When I used to hide in the
closet so she wouldn’t ﬁnd me with those … those glowing
eyes. Did you even care that I was scared? Did you even
know when I ﬁnally ran away?’
In the kitchen, Ms Castellan chattered aimlessly, pouring
Kool-Aid for Thalia and Annabeth as she told them stories
about Luke as a baby. Thalia rubbed her bandaged leg
nervously. Annabeth glanced into the living room and held
up a burnt cookie for Luke to see. She mouthed, Can we go
now?
‘Luke, I care very much,’ Hermes said slowly, ‘but gods
must not interfere directly in mortal aﬀairs. It is one of our
Ancient Laws. Especially when your destiny  …’ His voice
trailed oﬀ. He stared at the candles as if remembering
something unpleasant.
‘What?’ Luke asked. ‘What about my destiny?’
‘You should not have come back,’ Hermes muttered. ‘It
only upsets you both. However, I see now that you are
getting too old to be on the run without help. I’ll speak with
Chiron at Camp Half-Blood and ask him to send a satyr to
collect you.’
‘We’re doing ﬁne without your help,’ Luke growled. ‘Now
what were you saying about my destiny?’
The wings on Hermes’ Reeboks ﬂuttered restlessly. He
studied his son as if he were trying to memorize his face,
1287
and suddenly a cold feeling washed through me. I realized
Hermes knew what May Castellan’s mutterings meant. I
wasn’t sure how, but looking at his face I was absolutely
certain. Hermes understood what would happen to Luke
some day, how he would turn evil.
‘My son,’ he said, ‘I’m the god of travellers, the god of
roads. If I know anything, I know that you must walk your
own path, even though it tears my heart.’
‘You don’t love me.’
‘I promise I  … I do love you. Go to camp. I will see that
you get a quest soon. Perhaps you can defeat the hydra, or
steal the apples of Hesperides. You will get a chance to be a
great hero before …’
‘Before what?’ Luke’s voice was trembling now. ‘What did
my mom see that made her like this? What’s going to
happen to me? If you love me, tell me.’
Hermes’ expression tightened. ‘I cannot.’
‘Then you don’t care!’ Luke yelled.
In the kitchen, the talking died abruptly.
‘Luke?’ May Castellan called. ‘Is that you? Is my boy all
right?’
Luke turned to hide his face, but I could see the tears in
his eyes. ‘I’m ﬁne. I have a new family. I don’t need either of
you.’
‘I’m your father,’ Hermes insisted.
‘A father is supposed to be around. I’ve never even met
you. Thalia, Annabeth, come on! We’re leaving!’
‘My boy, don’t go!’ May Castellan called after him. ‘I have
your lunch ready!’
Luke stormed out of the door, Thalia and Annabeth
scrambling after him. May Castellan tried to follow, but
Hermes held her back.
As the screen door slammed, May collapsed in Hermes’
arms and began to shake. Her eyes opened – glowing green
– and she clutched desperately at Hermes’ shoulders.
‘My son,’ she hissed in a dry voice. ‘Danger. Terrible fate!’
1288
‘I know, my love,’ Hermes said sadly. ‘Believe me, I know.’
The image faded. Prometheus pulled his hand away from my
forehead.
‘Percy?’ Thalia asked. ‘What – what was that?’
I realized I was clammy with sweat.
Prometheus nodded sympathetically. ‘Appalling, isn’t it?
The gods know what is to come, and yet they do nothing,
even for their children. How long did it take for them to tell
you your prophecy, Percy Jackson? Don’t you think your
father knows what will happen to you?’
I was too stunned to answer.
‘Perrrrcy,’ Grover warned, ‘he’s playing with your mind.
Trying to make you angry.’
Grover could read emotions, so he probably knew
Prometheus was succeeding.
‘Do you really blame your friend Luke?’ the Titan asked
me. ‘And what about you, Percy? Will you be controlled by
your fate? Kronos oﬀers you a much better deal.’
I clenched my ﬁsts. As much as I hated what Prometheus
had shown me, I hated Kronos a lot more. ‘I’ll give you a
deal. Tell Kronos to call oﬀ his attack, leave Luke Castellan’s
body and return to the pits of Tartarus. Then maybe I won’t
have to destroy him.’
The empousa snarled. Her hair erupted in fresh ﬂames,
but Prometheus just sighed.
‘If you change your mind,’ he said, ‘I have a gift for you.’
A Greek vase appeared on the table. It was about a metre
high and thirty centimetres wide, glazed with black-and-
white geometric designs. The ceramic lid was fastened with
a leather harness.
Grover whimpered when he saw it.
Thalia gasped. ‘That’s not –’
‘Yes,’ Prometheus said. ‘You recognize it.’
Looking at the jar, I felt a strange sense of fear, but I had
no idea why.
1289
‘This belonged to my sister-in-law,’ Prometheus explained.
‘Pandora.’
A lump formed in my throat. ‘As in Pandora’s box?’
Prometheus shook his head. ‘I don’t know how this box
business got started. It was never a box. It was a pithos, a
storage jar. I suppose Pandora’s pithos doesn’t have the
same ring to it, but never mind that. Yes, she did open this
jar, which contained most of the demons that now haunt
mankind – fear, death, hunger, sickness.’
‘Don’t forget me,’ the empousa purred.
‘Indeed,’ Prometheus conceded. ‘The ﬁrst empousa was
also trapped in this jar, released by Pandora. But what I ﬁnd
curious about the story – Pandora always gets the blame.
She is punished for being curious. The gods would have you
believe that this is the lesson: mankind should not explore.
They should not ask questions. They should do what they
are told. In truth, Percy, this jar was a trap designed by Zeus
and the other gods. It was revenge on me and my entire
family – my poor simple brother Epimetheus and his wife
Pandora. The gods knew she would open the jar. They were
willing to punish the entire race of humanity along with us.’
I thought about my dream of Hades and Maria di Angelo.
Zeus had destroyed an entire hotel to eliminate two
demigod children – just to save his own skin, because he
was scared of a prophecy. He’d killed an innocent woman
and probably hadn’t lost any sleep over it. Hades was no
better. He wasn’t powerful enough to take his revenge on
Zeus, so he cursed the Oracle, dooming a young girl to a
horrible fate. And Hermes … why had he abandoned Luke?
Why hadn’t he at least warned Luke, or tried to raise him
better so he wouldn’t turn evil?
Maybe Prometheus was toying with my mind.
But what if he’s right? part of me wondered. How are the
gods any better than the Titans?
Prometheus tapped the lid of Pandora’s jar. ‘Only one
spirit remained inside when Pandora opened it.’
1290
‘Hope,’ I said.
Prometheus looked pleased. ‘Very good, Percy. Elpis, the
Spirit of Hope, would not abandon humanity. Hope does not
leave without being given permission. She can only be
released by a child of man.’
The Titan slid the jar across the table.
‘I give you this as a reminder of what the gods are like,’ he
said. ‘Keep Elpis, if you wish. But if you decide that you have
seen enough destruction, enough futile suﬀering, then open
the jar. Let Elpis go. Give up Hope, and I will know that you
are surrendering. I promise Kronos will be lenient. He will
spare the survivors.’
I stared at the jar and got a very bad feeling. I ﬁgured
Pandora had been completely ADHD, like me. I could never
leave things alone. I didn’t like temptation. What if this was
my choice? Maybe the prophecy all came down to me
keeping this jar closed or opening it.
‘I don’t want the thing,’ I growled.
‘Too late,’ Prometheus said. ‘The gift is given. It cannot be
taken back.’
He stood. The empousa came forward and slipped her arm
through his.
‘Morrain!’ Prometheus called to the blue giant. ‘We are
leaving. Get your ﬂag.’
‘Uh-oh,’ the giant said.
‘We will see you soon, Percy Jackson,’ Prometheus
promised. ‘One way or another.’
Ethan Nakamura gave me one last hateful look. Then the
truce party turned and strolled up the lane through Central
Park, like it was just a regular sunny Sunday afternoon.
1291
14    Pigs Fly
 
Back at the Plaza, Thalia pulled me aside. ‘What did
Prometheus show you?’
Reluctantly, I told her about the vision of May Castellan’s
house. Thalia rubbed her thigh like she was remembering
the old wound.
‘That was a bad night,’ she admitted. ‘Annabeth was so
little I don’t think she really understood what she saw. She
just knew Luke was upset.’
I looked out of the hotel windows at Central Park. Small
ﬁres were still burning in the north, but otherwise the city
seemed unnaturally peaceful. ‘Do you know what happened
to May Castellan? I mean –’
‘I know what you mean,’ Thalia said. ‘I never saw her have
an, um, episode, but Luke told me about the glowing eyes,
the strange things she would say. He made me promise
never to tell. What caused it – I have no idea. If Luke knew,
he never told me.’
‘Hermes knew,’ I said. ‘Something caused May to see
parts of Luke’s future, and Hermes understood what would
happen – how Luke would turn into Kronos.’
Thalia frowned. ‘You can’t be sure of that. Remember
Prometheus was manipulating what you saw, Percy, showing
you what happened in the worst possible light. Hermes did
love Luke. I could tell just by looking at his face. And Hermes
was there that night because he was checking up on May,
taking care of her. He wasn’t all bad.’
‘It’s still not right,’ I insisted. ‘Luke was just a little kid.
Hermes never helped him, never stopped him from running
1292
away.’
Thalia shouldered her bow. Again it struck me how much
stronger she looked now that she’d stopped aging. You
could almost see a silvery glow around her – the blessing of
Artemis.
‘Percy,’ she said, ‘you can’t start feeling sorry for Luke. We
all have tough things to deal with. All demigods do. Our
parents are hardly ever around. But Luke made bad choices.
Nobody forced him to do that. In fact –’
She glanced down the hall to make sure we were alone.
‘I’m worried about Annabeth. If she has to face Luke in
battle, I don’t know if she can do it. She’s always had a soft
spot for him.’
Blood rose to my face. ‘She’ll do ﬁne.’
‘I don’t know. After that night, after we left his mom’s
house? Luke was never the same. He got reckless and
moody, like he had something to prove. By the time Grover
found us and tried to get us to camp  … well, part of the
reason we had so much trouble was because Luke wouldn’t
be careful. He wanted to pick a ﬁght with every monster we
crossed. Annabeth didn’t see that as a problem. Luke was
her hero. She only understood that his parents had made
him sad, and she got very defensive of him. She still is
defensive. All I’m saying … Don’t you fall into the same trap.
Luke has given himself to Kronos now. We can’t aﬀord to be
soft on him.’
I looked out at the ﬁres in Harlem, wondering how many
sleeping mortals were in danger right now because of Luke’s
bad choices.
‘You’re right,’ I said.
Thalia patted my shoulder. ‘I’m going to check on the
Hunters, then get some more sleep before nightfall. You
should crash, too.’
‘The last thing I need is more dreams.’
‘I know, believe me.’ Her dark expression made me
wonder what she’d been dreaming about. It was a common
1293
demigod problem: the more dangerous our situation
became, the worse and more frequent our dreams got. ‘But,
Percy, there’s no telling when you’ll get another chance for
rest. It’s going to be a long night – maybe our last night.’
I didn’t like it, but I knew she was right. I nodded wearily
and gave her Pandora’s jar. ‘Do me a favour. Lock this in the
hotel vault, will you? I think I’m allergic to pithos.’
Thalia smiled. ‘You got it.’
I found the nearest bed and passed out. But of course
sleep only brought more nightmares.
I saw the undersea palace of my father. The enemy army
was closer now, entrenched only a few hundred metres
outside the palace. The fortress walls were completely
destroyed. 
The 
temple 
my 
dad 
had 
used 
as 
his
headquarters was burning with Greek ﬁre.
I zoomed in on the armoury, where my brother and some
other Cyclopes were on lunch break, eating from huge jars
of extra-chunky peanut butter (and don’t ask me how it
tasted underwater, because I don’t want to know). As I
watched, the outer wall of the armoury exploded. A Cyclops
warrior stumbled inside, collapsing on the lunch table. Tyson
knelt down to help, but it was too late. The Cyclops
dissolved into sea silt.
Enemy giants moved towards the breech, and Tyson
picked up the fallen warrior’s club. He yelled something to
his fellow blacksmiths – probably ‘For Poseidon!’ – but with
his mouth full of peanut butter it sounded like, ‘PUH PTEH
BUN.’ His brethren all grabbed hammers and chisels, yelled,
‘PEANUT BUTTER!’ and charged behind Tyson into battle.
Then the scene shifted. I was with Ethan Nakamura at the
enemy camp. What I saw made me shiver, partly because
the army was so huge, partly because I recognized the
place.
We were in the backwoods of New Jersey, on a crumbling
road lined with run-down businesses and tattered billboard
1294
signs. A trampled fence ringed a big yard full of cement
statuary. The sign above the warehouse was hard to read
because it was in red cursive, but I knew what it said: AUNTY
EM’S GARDEN GNOME EMPORIUM.
I hadn’t thought about the place in years. It was clearly
abandoned. The statues were broken and spray-painted with
graﬃti. A cement satyr – Grover’s Uncle Ferdinand – had lost
his arm. Part of the warehouse roof had caved in. A big
yellow sign pasted on the door read: CONDEMNED.
Hundreds of tents and ﬁres surrounded the property.
Mostly I saw monsters, but there were some human
mercenaries in combat fatigues and demigods in armour,
too. A purple-and-black banner hung outside the emporium,
guarded by two huge blue Hyperboreans.
Ethan crouched at the nearest campﬁre. A couple of other
demigods sat with him, sharpening their swords. The doors
of the warehouse opened and Prometheus stepped out.
‘Nakamura,’ he called. ‘The master would like to speak to
you.’
Ethan stood up warily. ‘Something wrong?’
Prometheus smiled. ‘You’ll have to ask him.’
One of the other demigods snickered. ‘Nice knowing you.’
Ethan readjusted his sword belt and headed into the
warehouse.
Except for the hole in the roof, the place was just as I
remembered. Statues of terriﬁed people stood frozen in mid-
scream. In the snack-bar area, the picnic tables had been
moved aside. Right between the drink dispenser and pretzel
warmer stood a golden throne. Kronos lounged on it, his
scythe across his lap. He wore jeans and a T-shirt, and with
his brooding expression he looked almost human – like the
younger version of Luke I’d seen in the vision, pleading with
Hermes to tell him his fate. Then Luke saw Ethan, and his
face contorted into a very inhuman smile. His golden eyes
glowed.
1295
‘Well, Nakamura. What did you think of the diplomatic
mission?’
Ethan hesitated. ‘I’m sure Lord Prometheus is better
suited to speak –’
‘But I asked you.’
Ethan’s good eye darted back and forth, noting the guards
that stood around Kronos. ‘I  … I don’t think Jackson will
surrender. Ever.’
Kronos nodded. ‘Anything else you wanted to tell me?’
‘N-no, sir.’
‘You look nervous, Ethan.’
‘No, sir. It’s just … I heard this was the lair of –’
‘Medusa? Yes, quite true. Lovely place, eh? Unfortunately,
Medusa hasn’t re-formed since Jackson killed her, so you
needn’t worry about joining her collection. Besides, there
are much more dangerous forces in this room.’
Kronos looked over at a Laistrygonian giant who was
munching noisily on some French fries. Kronos waved his
hand and the giant froze. A French fry hung suspended in
midair halfway between his hand and his mouth.
‘Why turn them to stone,’ Kronos asked, ‘when you can
freeze time itself?’
His golden eyes bored into Ethan’s face. ‘Now tell me one
more thing. What happened last night on the Williamsburg
Bridge?’
Ethan trembled. Beads of perspiration were popping up on
his forehead. ‘I – I don’t know, sir.’
‘Yes, you do.’ Kronos rose from his seat. ‘When you
attacked Jackson, something happened. Something was not
quite right. The girl, Annabeth, jumped in your way.’
‘She wanted to save him.’
‘But he is invulnerable,’ Kronos said quietly. ‘You saw that
yourself.’
‘I can’t explain it. Maybe she forgot.’
‘She forgot,’ Kronos said. ‘Yes, that must’ve been it. Oh
dear, I forgot my friend is invulnerable and took a knife for
1296
him. Oops. Tell me, Ethan, where were you aiming when you
stabbed at Jackson?’
Ethan frowned. He clasped his hand as if he were holding
a blade and mimed a thrust. ‘I’m not sure, sir. It all
happened so fast. I wasn’t aiming for any spot in particular.’
Kronos’s ﬁngers tapped the blade of his scythe.
‘I see,’ he said in a chilly tone. ‘If your memory improves, I
will expect –’
Suddenly the Titan lord winced. The giant in the corner
unfroze and the French fry fell into his mouth. Kronos
stumbled backwards and sank into his throne.
‘My lord?’ Ethan started forward.
‘I –’ The voice was weak, but just for a moment it was
Luke’s. Then Kronos’s expression hardened. He raised his
hand and ﬂexed his ﬁngers slowly as if forcing them to obey.
‘It is nothing,’ he said, his voice steely and cold again. ‘A
minor discomfort.’
Ethan moistened his lips. ‘He’s still ﬁghting you, isn’t he?
Luke –’
‘Nonsense,’ Kronos spat. ‘Repeat that lie, and I will cut out
your tongue. The boy’s soul has been crushed. I am simply
adjusting to the limits of this form. It requires rest. It is
annoying, but no more than a temporary inconvenience.’
‘As – as you say, my lord.’
‘You!’ Kronos pointed his scythe at a dracaena with green
armour and a green crown. ‘Queen Sess, is it?’
‘Yesssss, my lord.’
‘Is our little surprise ready to be unleashed?’
The dracaena queen bared her fangs. ‘Oh, yessss, my
lord. Quite a lovely sssssurprissse.’
‘Excellent,’ Kronos said. ‘Tell my brother Hyperion to move
our main force south into Central Park. The half-bloods will
be in such disarray they will not be able to defend
themselves. Go now, Ethan. Work on improving your
memory. We will talk again when we have taken Manhattan.’
1297
Ethan bowed, and my dreams shifted one last time. I saw
the Big House at camp, but it was a diﬀerent era. The house
was painted red instead of blue. The campers down at the
volleyball pit had early 90s hairstyles, which were probably
good for keeping monsters away.
Chiron stood by the porch, talking to Hermes and a
woman holding a baby. Chiron’s hair was shorter and darker.
Hermes wore his usual jogging suit with his winged hi-tops.
The woman was tall and pretty. She had blonde hair, shining
eyes and a friendly smile. The baby in her arms squirmed in
his blue blanket like Camp Half-Blood was the last place he
wanted to be.
‘It’s an honour to have you here,’ Chiron told the woman,
though he sounded nervous. ‘It’s been a long time since a
mortal was allowed at camp.’
‘Don’t encourage her,’ Hermes grumbled. ‘May, you can’t
do this.’
With a shock, I realized I was seeing May Castellan. She
looked nothing like the old woman I’d met. She seemed full
of life – the kind of person who could smile and make
everyone around her feel good.
‘Oh, don’t worry so much,’ May said, rocking the baby.
‘You need an Oracle, don’t you? The old one’s been dead for
what, twenty years?’
‘Longer,’ Chiron said gravely.
Hermes raised his arms in exasperation. ‘I didn’t tell you
that story so you could apply. It’s dangerous. Chiron, tell
her.’
‘It is,’ Chiron warned. ‘For many years, I have forbidden
anyone from trying. We don’t know exactly what’s
happened. Humanity seems to have lost the ability to host
the Oracle.’
‘We’ve been through that,’ May said. ‘And I know I can do
it. Hermes, this is my chance to do something good. I’ve
been given the gift of sight for a reason.’
1298
I wanted to yell at May Castellan to stop. I knew what was
about to happen. I ﬁnally understood how her life had been
destroyed. But I couldn’t move or speak.
Hermes looked more hurt than worried. ‘You couldn’t
marry if you became the Oracle,’ he complained. ‘You
couldn’t see me any more.’
May put her hand on his arm. ‘I can’t have you forever,
can I? You’ll move on soon. You’re immortal.’
He started to protest, but she put her hand on his chest.
‘You know it’s true! Don’t try to spare my feelings. Besides,
we have a wonderful child. I can still raise Luke if I’m the
Oracle, right?’
Chiron coughed. ‘Yes, but in all fairness I don’t know how
that will aﬀect the spirit of the Oracle. A woman who has
already borne a child – as far as I know, this has never been
done before. If the spirit does not take –’
‘It will,’ May insisted.
No, I wanted to shout. It won’t.
May Castellan kissed her baby and handed the bundle to
Hermes. ‘I’ll be right back.’
She gave them one last conﬁdent smile and climbed the
steps.
Chiron and Hermes paced in silence. The baby squirmed.
A green glow lit the windows of the house. The campers
stopped playing volleyball and stared up at the attic. A cold
wind rushed through the strawberry ﬁelds.
Hermes must’ve felt it, too. He cried, ‘No! NO!’
He shoved the baby into Chiron’s arms and ran for the
porch. Before he reached the door, the sunny afternoon was
shattered by May Castellan’s terriﬁed scream.
I sat up so fast I banged my head on somebody’s shield.
‘Ow!’
‘Sorry, Percy.’ Annabeth was standing over me. ‘I was just
about to wake you.’
1299
I rubbed my head, trying to clear the disturbing visions.
Suddenly a lot of things made sense to me: May Castellan
had tried to become the Oracle. She hadn’t known about
Hades’ curse preventing the spirit of Delphi from taking
another host. Neither had Chiron or Hermes. They hadn’t
realized that by trying to take the job, May would be driven
mad, plagued with ﬁts during which her eyes would glow
green and she would have shattered glimpses of her child’s
future.
‘Percy?’ Annabeth asked. ‘What’s wrong?’
‘Nothing,’ I lied. ‘What – what are you doing in armour?
You should be resting.’
‘Oh, I’m ﬁne,’ she said, though she still looked pale. She
was barely moving her right arm. ‘That nectar and ambrosia
ﬁxed me up.’
‘Uh-huh. You can’t seriously go out and ﬁght.’
She oﬀered me her good hand and helped me up. My
head was pounding. Outside, the sky was purple and red.
‘You’re going to need every person you have,’ she said. ‘I
just looked in my shield. There’s an army –’
‘Heading south into Central Park,’ I said. ‘Yeah, I know.’
I told her part of my dreams. I left out the vision of May
Castellan, because it was too disturbing to talk about. I also
left out Ethan’s speculation about Luke ﬁghting Kronos
inside his body. I didn’t want to get Annabeth’s hopes up.
‘Do you think Ethan suspects about your weak spot?’ she
asked.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘He didn’t tell Kronos anything,
but if he ﬁgures it out –’
‘We can’t let him.’
‘I’ll bonk him on the head harder next time,’ I suggested.
‘Any idea what surprise Kronos was talking about?’
She shook her head. ‘I didn’t see anything in the shield,
but I don’t like surprises.’
‘Agreed.’
1300
‘So,’ she said, ‘are you going to argue about me coming
along?’
‘Nah. You’d just beat me up.’
She managed a laugh, which was good to hear. I grabbed
my sword, and we went to rally the troops.
Thalia and the head counsellors were waiting for us at the
reservoir. The lights of the city were blinking on at twilight. I
guess a lot of them were on automatic timers. Streetlamps
glowed around the shore of the lake, making the water and
trees look even spookier.
‘They’re coming,’ Thalia conﬁrmed, pointing north with a
silver arrow. ‘One of my scouts just reported they’ve crossed
the Harlem River. There was no way to hold them back. The
army …’ She shrugged. ‘It’s huge.’
‘We’ll hold them at the park,’ I said. ‘Grover, you ready?’
He nodded. ‘As ready as we’ll ever be. If my nature spirits
can stop them anywhere, this is the place.’
‘Yes, we will!’ said another voice. A very old, fat satyr
pushed through the crowd, stumbling over his own spear. He
was dressed in wood-bark armour that only covered half of
his belly.
‘Leneus?’ I said.
‘Don’t act so surprised,’ he huﬀed. ‘I am a leader of the
council, and you did tell me to ﬁnd Grover. Well, I found him,
and I’m not going to let a mere outcast lead the satyrs
without my help!’
Behind Leneus’s back, Grover made gagging motions, but
the old satyr grinned like he was the saviour of the day.
‘Never fear! We’ll show those Titans!’
I didn’t know whether to laugh or be angry, but I managed
to keep a straight face. ‘Um  … yeah. Well, Grover – you
won’t be alone. Annabeth and the Athena cabin will make
their stand here. And me, and … Thalia?’
She patted me on the shoulder. ‘Say no more. The Hunters
are ready.’
1301
I looked at the other counsellors. ‘That leaves the rest of
you with a job just as important. You have to guard the other
entrances to Manhattan. You know how tricky Kronos is. He’ll
hope to distract us with this big army and sneak another
force in somewhere else. It’s up to you to make sure that
doesn’t happen. Has each cabin chosen a bridge or tunnel?’
The counsellors nodded grimly.
‘Then let’s do it,’ I said. ‘Good hunting, everybody!’
We heard the army before we saw it.
The noise was like a cannon barrage combined with a
football-stadium crowd – like every sports fan in New
England was charging us with bazookas.
At the north end of the reservoir, the enemy vanguard
broke through the woods – a warrior in golden armour
leading a battalion of Laistrygonian giants with huge bronze
axes. Hundreds of other monsters poured out behind them.
‘Positions!’ Annabeth yelled.
Her cabin mates scrambled. The idea was to make the
enemy army break around the reservoir. To get to us, they’d
have to follow the trails, which meant they’d be marching in
narrow columns on either side of the water.
At ﬁrst the plan seemed to work. The enemy divided and
streamed towards us along the shore. When they were
halfway across, our defences kicked in. The jogging trail
erupted in Greek ﬁre, incinerating many of the monsters
instantly. Others ﬂailed around, engulfed in green ﬂames.
Athena campers threw grappling hooks around the largest
giants and pulled them to the ground.
In the woods on the right, the Hunters sent a volley of
silver arrows into the enemy line, destroying twenty or thirty
dracaenae, but more marched behind them. A bolt of
lightning crackled out of the sky and fried a Laistrygonian
giant to ashes, and I knew Thalia must be doing her
‘daughter of Zeus’ thing.
1302
Grover raised his pipes and played a quick tune. A roar
went up from the woods on both sides as every tree, rock
and bush seemed to sprout a spirit. Dryads and satyrs
raised their clubs and charged. The trees wrapped around
the monsters, strangling them. Grass grew around the feet
of the enemy archers. Stones ﬂew up and hit dracaenae in
the faces.
The enemy slogged forward. Giants smashed through the
trees and naiads faded as their life sources were destroyed.
Hellhounds lunged at the timber wolves, knocking them
aside. Enemy archers returned ﬁre and a Hunter fell from a
high branch.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth grabbed my arm and pointed at the
reservoir. The Titan in the gold armour wasn’t waiting for his
forces to advance around the sides. He was charging
towards us, walking straight over the top of the lake.
A Greek ﬁre bomb exploded right on top of him, but he
raised his palm and sucked the ﬂames out of the air.
‘Hyperion,’ Annabeth said in awe. ‘The Lord of Light. Titan
of the east.’
‘Bad?’ I guessed.
‘Next to Atlas, he’s the greatest Titan warrior. In the old
days, four Titans controlled the four corners of the world.
Hyperion was the east – the most powerful. He was the
father of Helios, the ﬁrst sun god.’
‘I’ll keep him busy,’ I promised.
‘Percy, even you can’t –’
‘Just keep our forces together.’
We’d set up at the reservoir for good reason. I
concentrated on the water and felt its power surging
through me.
I advanced towards Hyperion, running over the top of the
water. Yeah, buddy. Two can play that game.
Six metres away, Hyperion raised his sword. His eyes were
just like I’d seen in my dream – as gold as Kronos’s but
brighter, like miniature suns.
1303
‘The sea god’s brat,’ he mused. ‘You’re the one who
trapped Atlas beneath the sky again?’
‘It wasn’t hard,’ I said. ‘You Titans are about as bright as
my gym socks.’
Hyperion snarled. ‘You want bright?’
His body ignited in a column of light and heat. I looked
away, but I was still blinded.
Instinctively I raised Riptide – just in time. His blade
slammed against mine. The shock wave sent a three-metre
ring of water across the surface of the lake.
My eyes still burned. I had to shut oﬀ his light.
I concentrated on the tidal wave and forced it to reverse.
Just before impact, I jumped upward on a jet of water.
‘AHHHHH!’ The waves smashed into Hyperion and he
went under, his light extinguished.
I landed on the lake’s surface just as Hyperion struggled
to his feet. His golden armour was dripping wet. His eyes no
longer blazed, but they still looked murderous.
‘You will burn, Jackson!’ he roared.
Our swords met again and the air charged with ozone.
The battle still raged around us. On the right ﬂank,
Annabeth was leading an assault with her siblings. On the
left ﬂank, Grover and his nature spirits were regrouping,
entangling the enemies with bushes and weeds.
‘Enough games,’ Hyperion told me. ‘We ﬁght on land.’
I was about to make some clever comment, like ‘No’,
when the Titan yelled. A wall of force slammed me through
the air – just like the trick Kronos had pulled on the bridge. I
sailed backwards about a hundred metres and smashed into
the ground. If it hadn’t been for my new invulnerability, I
would’ve broken every bone in my body.
I got to my feet, groaning. ‘I really hate it when you Titans
do that.’
Hyperion closed on me with blinding speed.
I concentrated on the water, drawing strength from it.
1304
Hyperion attacked. He was powerful and fast, but he
couldn’t seem to land a blow. The ground around his feet
kept erupting in ﬂames, but I kept dousing it just as quickly.
‘Stop it!’ the Titan roared. ‘Stop that wind!’
I wasn’t sure what he meant. I was too busy ﬁghting.
Hyperion stumbled like he was being pushed away. Water
sprayed his face, stinging his eyes. The wind picked up and
Hyperion staggered backwards.
‘Percy!’ Grover called in amazement. ‘How are you doing
that?’
Doing what? I thought.
Then I looked down, and I realized I was standing in the
middle of my own personal hurricane. Clouds of water
vapour swirled around me, winds so powerful they buﬀeted
Hyperion and ﬂattened the grass in a twenty-metre radius.
Enemy warriors threw javelins at me, but the storm knocked
them aside.
‘Sweet,’ I muttered. ‘But a little more!’
Lightning ﬂickered around me. The clouds darkened and
the rain swirled faster. I closed on Hyperion and blew him oﬀ
his feet.
‘Percy!’ Grover called again. ‘Bring him over here!’
I slashed and jabbed, letting my reﬂexes take over.
Hyperion could barely defend himself. His eyes kept trying
to ignite, but the hurricane quenched his ﬂames.
I couldn’t keep up a storm like this forever, though. I could
feel my powers weakening. With one last eﬀort, I propelled
Hyperion across the ﬁeld, straight to where Grover was
waiting.
‘I will not be toyed with!’ Hyperion bellowed.
He managed to get to his feet again, but Grover put his
reed pipes to his lips and began to play. Leneus joined him.
Around the grove, every satyr took up the song – an eerie
melody like a creek ﬂowing over stones. The ground erupted
at Hyperion’s feet. Gnarled roots wrapped around his legs.
1305
‘What’s this?’ he protested. He tried to shake oﬀ the roots,
but he was still weak. The roots thickened until he looked
like he was wearing wooden boots.
‘Stop this!’ he shouted. ‘Your woodland magic is no match
for a Titan!’
But the more he struggled, the faster the roots grew. They
curled about his body, thickening and hardening into bark.
His golden armour melted into the wood, becoming part of a
large trunk.
The music continued. Hyperion’s forces backed up in
astonishment as their leader was absorbed. He stretched
out his arms and they became branches, from which smaller
branches shot out and grew leaves. The tree grew taller and
thicker, until only the Titan’s face was visible in the middle
of the trunk.
‘You cannot imprison me!’ he bellowed. ‘I am Hyperion! I
am –’
The bark closed over his face.
Grover took his pipes from his mouth. ‘You are a very nice
maple tree.’
Several of the other satyrs passed out from exhaustion,
but they’d done their job well. The Titan lord was completely
encased in an enormous maple. The trunk was at least
seven metres in diameter, with branches as tall as any in
the park. The tree might’ve stood there for centuries.
The Titans’ army started to retreat. A cheer went up from
the Athena cabin, but our victory was short-lived.
Because just then Kronos unleashed his surprise.
‘REEEEET!’
The squeal echoed through upper Manhattan. Demigods
and monsters alike froze in terror.
Grover shot me a panicked look. ‘Why does that sound like
– It can’t be!’
I knew what he was thinking. Two years ago we’d got a
‘gift’ from Pan – a huge boar that carried us across the
1306
Southwest (after it tried to kill us). The boar had a similar
squeal, but what we were hearing now seemed higher
pitched, shriller, almost as if … as if the boar had an angry
girlfriend.
‘REEEEEET!’ A huge pink creature soared over the
reservoir – a Thanksgiving Day Parade nightmare blimp with
wings.
‘A sow!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Take cover!’
The demigods scattered as the winged lady pig swooped
down. Her wings were pink like a ﬂamingo’s, which matched
her skin beautifully, but it was hard to think of her as ‘cute’
when her hooves slammed into the ground, barely missing
one of Annabeth’s siblings. The pig stomped around and
tore down half an acre of trees, belching a cloud of noxious
gas. Then it took oﬀ again, circling around for another strike.
‘Don’t tell me that thing is from Greek mythology,’ I
complained.
‘Afraid so,’ Annabeth said. ‘The Clazmonian Sow. It
terrorized Greek towns back in the day.’
‘Let me guess,’ I said. ‘Hercules beat it.’
‘Nope,’ Annabeth said. ‘As far as I know, no hero has ever
beaten it.’
‘Perfect,’ I muttered.
The Titans’ army was recovering from its shock. I guess
they realized the pig wasn’t after them.
We only had seconds before they were ready to ﬁght, and
our forces were still in a panic. Every time the sow belched,
Grover’s nature spirits yelped and faded back into their
trees.
‘That pig has to go.’ I grabbed a grappling hook from one
of Annabeth’s siblings. ‘I’ll take care of it. You guys hold the
rest of the enemy. Push them back!’
‘But, Percy,’ Grover said, ‘what if we can’t?’
I saw how tired he was. The magic had really drained him.
Annabeth didn’t look much better from ﬁghting with a bad
shoulder wound. I didn’t know how the Hunters were doing,
1307
but the right ﬂank of the enemy army was now between
them and us.
I didn’t want to leave my friends in such bad shape, but
that sow was the biggest threat. It would destroy everything
– buildings, trees, sleeping mortals. It had to be stopped.
‘Retreat if you need to,’ I said. ‘Just slow them down. I’ll be
back as soon as I can.’
Before I could change my mind, I swung the grappling
hook like a lasso. When the sow came down for its next
pass, I threw with all my strength. The hook wrapped around
the base of the pig’s wing. It squealed in rage and veered
oﬀ, yanking the rope and me into the sky.
If you’re heading downtown from Central Park, my advice is
to take the subway. Flying pigs are faster, but way more
dangerous.
The sow soared past the Plaza Hotel, straight into the
canyon of Fifth Avenue. My brilliant plan was to climb the
rope and get on the pig’s back. Unfortunately, I was too
busy swinging around dodging streetlamps and the sides of
buildings.
Another thing I learned: it’s one thing to climb a rope in
gym class. It’s a completely diﬀerent thing to climb a rope
attached to a moving pig’s wing while you’re ﬂying at a
hundred miles an hour.
We zigzagged along several blocks and continued south
on Park Avenue.
Boss! Hey, boss! Out of the corner of my eye, I saw
Blackjack speeding along next to us, darting back and forth
to avoid the pig’s wings.
‘Watch out!’ I told him.
Hop on! Blackjack whinnied. I can catch you – probably.
That wasn’t very reassuring. Grand Central Station lay
dead ahead. Above the main entrance stood the giant
statue of Hermes, which I guess hadn’t been activated
1308
because it was so high up. I was ﬂying right towards him at
the speed of demigod-smashing.
‘Stay alert!’ I told Blackjack. ‘I’ve got an idea.’
Oh, I hate your ideas.
I swung outwards with all my might. Instead of smashing
into the Hermes statue, I whipped around it, circling the
rope under its arms. I thought this would tether the pig, but
I’d underestimated the momentum of a thirty-ton sow in
ﬂight. Just as the pig wrenched the statue loose from its
pedestal, I let go. Hermes went for a ride, taking my place
as the pig’s passenger, and I freefell towards the street.
In that split second, I thought about the days when my
mom used to work at the Grand Central Station candy shop.
I thought how bad it would be if I ended up as a grease spot
on the pavement.
Then a shadow swooped under me and thump – I was on
Blackjack’s back. It wasn’t the most comfortable landing. In
fact when I yelled, ‘OW!’ my voice was an octave higher
than usual.
Sorry, boss, Blackjack murmured.
‘No problem,’ I squeaked. ‘Follow that pig!’
The porker had taken a right at East Forty-second and was
ﬂying back towards Fifth Avenue. When it ﬂew above the
rooftops, I could see ﬁres here and there around the city. It
looked like my friends were having a rough time. Kronos was
attacking on several fronts. But at the moment, I had my
own problems.
The Hermes statue was still on its leash. It kept bonking
into buildings and spinning around. The pig swooped over
an oﬃce building and Hermes ploughed into a water tower
on the roof, blasting water and wood everywhere.
Then something occurred to me.
‘Get closer,’ I told Blackjack.
He whinnied in protest.
‘Just within shouting distance,’ I said. ‘I need to talk to the
statue.’
1309
Now I’m sure you’ve lost it, boss, Blackjack said, but he
did what I asked. When I was close enough to see the
statue’s face clearly, I yelled, ‘Hello, Hermes! Command
sequence: Daedalus Twenty-three. Kill ﬂying pigs! Begin
Activation!’
Immediately the statue moved its legs. It seemed
confused to ﬁnd it was no longer on top of Grand Central
Station. It was, instead, being given a sky-ride on the end of
a rope by a large winged sow. It smashed through the side
of a brick building, which I think made it a little mad. It
shook its head and began to climb the rope.
I glanced down at the street. We were coming up on the
main public library, with the big marble lions ﬂanking the
steps. Suddenly I had a weird thought – could stone statues
be automatons, too? It seemed like a long shot, but …
‘Faster!’ I told Blackjack. ‘Get in front of the pig. Taunt
him!’
Um, boss –
‘Trust me,’ I said. ‘I can do this – probably.’
Oh, sure. Mock the horse.
Blackjack burst through the air. He could ﬂy pretty darned
fast when we wanted to. He got in front of the pig, which
now had a metal Hermes on its back.
Blackjack whinnied, You smell like ham! He kicked the pig
in the snout with his back hooves and went into a steep
dive. The pig screamed in rage and followed.
We barrelled straight for the front steps of the library.
Blackjack slowed down just enough for me to hop oﬀ, then
he kept ﬂying towards the main doors.
I yelled out: ‘Lions! Command sequence: Daedalus
Twenty-three. Kill ﬂying pigs! Begin Activation!’
The lions stood up and looked at me. They probably
thought I was teasing them. But just then: ‘REEEEEET!’
The massive pink pork monster landed with a thud,
cracking the sidewalk. The lions stared at it, not believing
their luck, and pounced. At the same time, a very beat-up
1310
Hermes statue leaped onto the pig’s head and started
banging it mercilessly with a caduceus. Those lions had
some nasty claws.
I drew Riptide, but there wasn’t much for me to do. The
pig disintegrated before my eyes. I almost felt sorry for it. I
hoped it got to meet the boar of its dreams down in
Tartarus.
When the monster had completely turned to dust, the
lions and the Hermes statue looked around in confusion.
‘You can defend Manhattan now,’ I told them, but they
didn’t seem to hear. They went charging down Park Avenue,
and I imagined they would keep looking for ﬂying pigs until
someone deactivated them.
Hey, boss, said Blackjack. Can we take a doughnut break?
I wiped the sweat oﬀ my brow. ‘I wish, big guy, but the
ﬁght’s still going on.’
In fact I could hear it getting closer. My friends needed
help. I jumped on Blackjack and we ﬂew north towards the
sound of explosions.
1311
15    Chiron Throws a Party
 
Midtown was a warzone. We ﬂew over little skirmishes
everywhere. A giant was ripping up trees in Bryant Park
while dryads pelted him with nuts. Outside the Waldorf
Astoria, a bronze statue of Benjamin Franklin was whacking
a hellhound with a rolled-up newspaper. A trio of
Hephaestus campers fought a squad of dracaenae in the
middle of Rockefeller Center.
I was tempted to stop and help, but I could tell from the
smoke and noise that the real action had moved further
south. Our defences were collapsing. The enemy was
closing on the Empire State Building.
We did a quick sweep of the surrounding area. The
Hunters had set up a defensive line on Thirty-seventh, just
three blocks north of Olympus. To the east on Park Avenue,
Jake Mason and some other Hephaestus campers were
leading an army of statues against the enemy. To the west,
the Demeter cabin and Grover’s nature spirits had turned
Sixth Avenue into a jungle that was hampering a squadron
of Kronos’s demigods. The south was clear for now, but the
ﬂanks of the enemy army were swinging around. A few more
minutes, and we’d be totally surrounded.
‘We have to land where they need us most,’ I muttered.
That’s everywhere, boss.
I spotted a familiar silver owl banner in the southeast
corner of the ﬁght – Thirty-third at the Park Avenue tunnel.
Annabeth and two of her siblings were holding back a
Hyperborean giant.
‘There!’ I told Blackjack. He plunged towards the battle.
1312
I leaped oﬀ his back and landed on the giant’s head.
When the giant looked up, I slid oﬀ his face, shield-bashing
his nose on the way down.
‘RAWWWR!’ The giant staggered backwards, blue blood
trickling from his nostrils.
I hit the pavement running. The Hyperborean breathed a
cloud of white mist and the temperature dropped. The spot
where I’d landed was now coated with ice, and I was
covered in frost like a sugar doughnut.
‘Hey, Ugly!’ Annabeth yelled. I hoped she was talking to
the giant, not me.
Blue Boy bellowed and turned towards her, exposing the
unprotected back of his legs. I charged and stabbed him
behind the knee.
‘WAAAAH!’ The Hyperborean buckled. I waited for him to
turn, but he froze. I mean he literally turned to solid ice.
From the point where I’d stabbed him, cracks appeared in
his body. They got larger and wider until the giant crumbled
in a mountain of blue shards.
‘Thanks.’ Annabeth winced, trying to catch her breath.
‘The pig?’
‘Pork chops,’ I said.
‘Good.’ She ﬂexed her shoulder. Obviously, the wound was
still bothering her, but she saw my expression and rolled her
eyes. ‘I’m ﬁne, Percy. Come on! We’ve got plenty of enemies
left.’
She was right. The next hour was a blur. I fought like I’d
never fought before – wading into legions of dracaenae,
taking out dozens of telkhines with every strike, destroying
empousai and knocking out enemy demigods. No matter
how many I defeated, more took their place.
Annabeth and I raced from block to block, trying to shore
up our defences. Too many of our friends lay wounded in the
streets. Too many were missing.
1313
As the night wore on and the moon got higher, we backed
up metre by metre until we were only a block from the
Empire State Building in any direction. At one point Grover
was next to me, bonking snake-women over the head with
his cudgel. Then he disappeared in the crowd, and it was
Thalia at my side, driving the monsters back with the power
of her magic shield. Mrs O’Leary bounded out of nowhere,
picked up a Laistrygonian giant in her mouth and ﬂung him
into the air like a Frisbee. Annabeth used her invisibility cap
to sneak behind the enemy lines. Whenever a monster
disintegrated for no apparent reason with a surprised look
on his face, I knew Annabeth had been there.
But it still wasn’t enough.
‘Hold your lines!’ Katie Gardner shouted, somewhere oﬀ to
my left.
The problem was there were too few of us to hold
anything. The entrance to Olympus was six metres behind
me. A ring of brave demigods, Hunters and nature spirits
guarded the doors. I slashed and hacked, destroying
everything in my path, but even I was getting tired, and I
couldn’t be everywhere at once.
Behind the enemy troops, a few blocks to the east, a
bright light began to shine. I thought it was the sunrise.
Then I realized Kronos was riding towards us on a golden
chariot. A dozen Laistrygonian giants bore torches before
him. 
Two 
Hyperboreans 
carried 
his 
black-and-purple
banners. The Titan lord looked fresh and rested, his powers
at full strength. He was taking his time advancing, letting
me wear myself down.
Annabeth appeared next to me. ‘We have to fall back to
the doorway. Hold it at all costs!’
She was right. I was about to order a retreat when I heard
the hunting horn.
It cut through the noise of the battle like a ﬁre alarm. A
chorus of horns answered from all around us, echoing oﬀ the
buildings of Manhattan.
1314
I glanced at Thalia, but she just frowned.
‘Not the Hunters,’ she assured me. ‘We’re all here.’
‘Then who?’
The horns got louder. I couldn’t tell where they were
coming from because of the echo, but it sounded like an
entire army was approaching.
I was afraid it might be more enemies, but Kronos’s forces
looked as confused as we were. Giants lowered their clubs.
Dracaenae hissed. Even Kronos’s honour guard looked
uneasy.
Then, to our left, a hundred monsters cried out at once.
Kronos’s entire northern ﬂank surged forward. I thought we
were doomed, but they didn’t attack. They ran straight past
us and crashed into their southern allies.
A new blast of horns shattered the night. The air
shimmered. In a blur of movement, an entire cavalry
appeared as if dropping out of light speed.
‘Yeah, baby!’ a voice wailed. ‘PARTY!’
A shower of arrows arced over our heads and slammed
into the enemy, vaporizing hundreds of demons. But these
weren’t regular arrows. They made whizzy sounds as they
ﬂew, like WHEEEEEE! Some had pinwheels attached to
them. Others had boxing gloves rather than points.
‘Centaurs!’ Annabeth yelled.
The Party Pony army exploded into our midst in a riot of
colours – tie-dyed shirts, rainbow Afro wigs, oversized
sunglasses and war-painted faces. Some had slogans
scrawled across their ﬂanks like: HORSEZ PWN or KRONOS SUX.
Hundreds of them ﬁlled the entire block. My brain couldn’t
process everything I saw, but I knew if I were the enemy, I’d
be running.
‘Percy!’ Chiron shouted across the sea of wild centaurs. He
was dressed in armour from the waist up, his bow in his
hand, and he was grinning in satisfaction. ‘Sorry we’re late!’
‘DUDE!’ Another centaur yelled. ‘Talk later. WASTE
MONSTERS NOW!’
1315
He locked and loaded a double-barrel paint gun and
blasted an enemy hellhound bright pink. The paint must’ve
been mixed with Celestial bronze dust or something,
because as soon as it splattered the hellhound, the monster
yelped and dissolved into a pink-and-black puddle.
‘PARTY PONIES!’ a centaur yelled. ‘SOUTH FLORIDA
CHAPTER!’
Somewhere across the battleﬁeld, a twangy voice yelled
back, ‘HEART OF TEXAS CHAPTER!’
‘HAWAII OWNS YOUR FACES!’ a third one shouted.
It was the most beautiful thing I’d ever seen. The entire
Titan army turned and ﬂed, pushed back by a ﬂood of paint
balls, arrows, swords and NERF baseball bats. The centaurs
trampled everything in their path.
‘Stop running, you fools!’ Kronos yelled. ‘Stand and ACKK!’
That last part was because a panicked Hyperborean giant
stumbled backwards and sat on top of him. The Lord of Time
disappeared under a giant blue butt.
We pushed them for several blocks until Chiron yelled,
‘HOLD! On your promise, HOLD!’
It wasn’t easy, but eventually the order got relayed up
and down the ranks of centaurs, and they started to pull
back, letting the enemy ﬂee.
‘Chiron’s smart,’ Annabeth said, wiping the sweat oﬀ her
face. ‘If we pursue, we’ll get too spread out. We need to
regroup.’
‘But the enemy –’
‘They’re not defeated,’ she agreed. ‘But the dawn is
coming. At least we’ve bought some time.’
I didn’t like pulling back, but I knew she was right. I
watched as the last of the telkhines scuttled towards the
East River. Then reluctantly I turned and headed back
towards the Empire State Building.
We set up a two-block perimeter, with a command tent at
the Empire State Building. Chiron informed us that the Party
1316
Ponies had sent chapters from almost every state in the
Union – forty from California, two from Rhode Island, thirty
from Illinois. Roughly ﬁve hundred total had answered his
call, but even with that many, we couldn’t defend more than
a few blocks.
‘Dude,’ said a centaur named Larry. His T-shirt identiﬁed
him as BIG CHIEF ÜBER GUY, NEW MEXICO CHAPTER. ‘That was more
fun than our last convention in Vegas!’
‘Yeah,’ said Owen from South Dakota. He wore a black
leather jacket and an old World War II army helmet. ‘We
totally wasted them!’
Chiron patted Owen on the back. ‘You did well, my friends,
but 
don’t 
get 
careless. 
Kronos 
should 
never 
be
underestimated. Now why don’t you visit the diner on West
Thirty-third and get some breakfast? I hear the Delaware
chapter found a stash of root beer.’
‘Root beer!’ They almost trampled each other as they
galloped oﬀ.
Chiron smiled. Annabeth gave him a big hug and Mrs
O’Leary licked his face.
‘Ack,’ he grumbled. ‘Enough of that, dog. Yes, I’m glad to
see you, too.’
‘Chiron, thanks,’ I said. ‘Talk about saving the day.’
He shrugged. ‘I’m sorry it took so long. Centaurs travel
fast, as you know. We can bend distance as we ride. Even
so, getting all the centaurs together was no easy task. The
Party Ponies are not exactly organized.’
‘How’d you get through the magic defences around the
city?’ Annabeth asked.
‘They slowed us down a bit,’ Chiron admitted, ‘but I think
they’re intended mostly to keep mortals out. Kronos doesn’t
want puny humans getting in the way of his great victory.’
‘So maybe other reinforcements can get through,’ I said
hopefully.
Chiron stroked his beard. ‘Perhaps, though time is short.
As soon as Kronos regroups, he will attack again. Without
1317
the element of surprise on our side …’
I understood what he meant. Kronos wasn’t beaten. Not
by a long shot. I half hoped Kronos had been squashed
under that Hyperborean giant’s butt, but I knew better. He’d
be back, tonight at the latest.
‘And Typhon?’ I asked.
Chiron’s face darkened. ‘The gods are tiring. Dionysus was
incapacitated yesterday. Typhon smashed his chariot and
the wine god went down somewhere in the Appalachians.
No one has seen him since. Hephaestus is out of action as
well. He was thrown from the battle so hard he created a
new lake in West Virginia. He will heal, but not soon enough
to help. The others still ﬁght. They’ve managed to slow
Typhon’s approach. But the monster cannot be stopped. He
will arrive in New York by this time tomorrow. Once he and
Kronos combine forces –’
‘Then what chance do we have?’ I said. ‘We can’t hold out
another day.’
‘We’ll have to,’ Thalia said. ‘I’ll see about setting some
new traps around the perimeter.’
She looked exhausted. Her jacket was smeared in grime
and monster dust, but she managed to get to her feet and
stagger oﬀ.
‘I will help her,’ Chiron decided. ‘I should make sure my
brethren don’t go too overboard with the root beer.’
I thought ‘too overboard’ pretty much summed up the
Party Ponies, but Chiron cantered oﬀ, leaving Annabeth and
me alone.
She cleaned the monster slime oﬀ her knife. I’d seen her
do that hundreds of times, but I’d never thought about why
she cared so much about the blade.
‘At least your mom is okay,’ I oﬀered.
‘If you call ﬁghting Typhon okay.’ She locked eyes with
me. ‘Percy, even with the centaurs’ help, I’m starting to
think –’
1318
‘I know.’ I had a bad feeling this might be our last chance
to talk, and I felt like there were a million things I hadn’t told
her. ‘Listen, there were some … some visions Hestia showed
me.’
‘You mean about Luke?’
Maybe it was just a safe guess, but I got the feeling
Annabeth knew what I’d been holding back. Maybe she’d
been having dreams of her own.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘You and Thalia and Luke. The ﬁrst time you
met. And the time you met Hermes.’
Annabeth slipped her knife back into its sheath. ‘Luke
promised he’d never let me get hurt. He said  … he said
we’d be a new family, and it would turn out better than his.’
Her eyes reminded me of that seven-year-old girl in the
alley – angry, scared, desperate for a friend.
‘Thalia talked to me earlier,’ I said. ‘She’s afraid –’
‘That I can’t face Luke,’ she said miserably.
I nodded. ‘But there’s something else you should know.
Ethan Nakamura seemed to think Luke was still alive inside
his body, maybe even ﬁghting Kronos for control.’
Annabeth tried to hide it, but I could almost see her mind
working on the possibilities, maybe starting to hope.
‘I didn’t want to tell you,’ I admitted.
She looked up at the Empire State Building. ‘Percy, for so
much of my life, I felt like everything was changing, all the
time. I didn’t have anyone I could rely on.’
I nodded. That was something most demigods could
understand.
‘I ran away when I was seven,’ she said. ‘Then with Luke
and Thalia I thought I’d found a family, but it fell apart
almost immediately. What I’m saying  … I hate it when
people let me down, when things are temporary. I think
that’s why I want to be an architect.’
‘To build something permanent,’ I said. ‘A monument to
last a thousand years.’
1319
She held my eyes. ‘I guess that sounds like my fatal ﬂaw
again.’
Years ago in the Sea of Monsters, Annabeth had told me
her biggest ﬂaw was pride – thinking she could ﬁx anything.
I’d even seen a glimpse of her deepest desire, shown to her
by the Sirens’ magic. Annabeth had imagined her mother
and father together, standing in front of a newly rebuilt
Manhattan, designed by Annabeth. And Luke had been
there, too – good again, welcoming her home.
‘I guess I understand how you feel,’ I said. ‘But Thalia’s
right. Luke has already betrayed you so many times. He was
evil even before Kronos. I don’t want him to hurt you any
more.’
Annabeth pursed her lips. I could tell she was trying not to
get mad. ‘And you’ll understand if I keep hoping there’s a
chance you’re wrong.’
I looked away. I felt like I’d done my best, but that didn’t
make me feel any better.
Across the street, the Apollo campers had set up a ﬁeld
hospital to tend the wounded – dozens of campers and
almost as many Hunters. I was watching the medics work,
and thinking about our slim chances for holding Mount
Olympus …
And suddenly: I wasn’t there any more.
I was standing in a long dingy bar with black walls, neon
signs and a bunch of partying adults. A banner across the
bar read, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BOBBY EARL. Country music played on
the speakers. Big guys in jeans and work shirts crowded the
bar. Waitresses carried trays of drinks and shouted at each
other. It was pretty much exactly the kind of place my mom
would never let me go.
I was stuck in the very back of the room, next to the
bathrooms (which didn’t smell so great) and a couple of
antique arcade games.
‘Oh, good, you’re here,’ said the man at the Pac-Man
machine. ‘I’ll have a Diet Coke.’
1320
He was a pudgy guy in a leopard-skin Hawaiian shirt,
purple shorts, red running shoes and black socks, which
didn’t exactly make him blend in with the crowd. His nose
was bright red. A bandage was wrapped around his curly
black hair like he was recovering from a concussion.
I blinked. ‘Mr D?’
He sighed, not taking his eyes from the game. ‘Really,
Peter Johnson, how long will it take for you to recognize me
on sight?’
‘About as long as it’ll take you to ﬁgure out my name,’ I
muttered. ‘Where are we?’
‘Why, Bobby Earl’s birthday party,’ Dionysus said.
‘Somewhere in lovely rural America.’
‘I thought Typhon swatted you out of the sky. They said
you crash-landed.’
‘Your concern is touching. I did crash-land. Very painfully.
In fact part of me is still buried under ﬁfty metres of rubble
in an abandoned coalmine. It will be several more hours
before I have enough strength to mend. But, in the
meantime, part of my consciousness is here.’
‘At a bar, playing Pac-Man.’
‘Party time,’ Dionysus said. ‘Surely you’ve heard of it.
Wherever there is a party, my presence is invoked. Because
of this, I can exist in many diﬀerent places at once. The only
problem was ﬁnding a party. I don’t know if you’re aware
how serious things are outside your safe little bubble of New
York –’
‘Safe little bubble?’
‘– but, believe me, the mortals out here in the heartland
are panicking. Typhon has terriﬁed them. Very few are
throwing parties. Apparently, Bobby Earl and his friends,
bless them, are a little slow. They haven’t yet ﬁgured out
that the world is ending.’
‘So … I’m not really here?’
‘No. In a moment, I’ll send you back to your normal
insigniﬁcant life and it will be as if nothing had happened.’
1321
‘And why did you bring me here?’
Dionysus snorted. ‘Oh, I didn’t want you particularly. Any
of you silly heroes would do. That Annie girl –’
‘Annabeth.’
‘The point is,’ he said, ‘I pulled you into party time to
deliver a warning. We are in danger.’
‘Gee,’ I said. ‘Never would’ve ﬁgured that out. Thanks.’
He glared at me and momentarily forgot his game. Pac-
Man got eaten by the red ghost dude.
‘Erre es korakas, Blinky!’ Dionysus cursed. ‘I will have
your soul!’
‘Um, he’s a video-game character,’ I said.
‘That’s no excuse! And you’re ruining my game,
Jorgenson!’
‘Jackson.’
‘Whichever! Now listen, the situation is graver than you
imagine. If Olympus falls, not only will the gods fade, but
everything that is connected to our legacy will also begin to
unravel. The very fabric of your puny little civilization –’
The game played a song and Mr D progressed to level
254.
‘Ha!’ he shouted. ‘Take that, you pixelated ﬁends!’
‘Um, fabric of civilization,’ I prompted.
‘Yes, yes. Your entire society will dissolve. Perhaps not
right away but, mark my words, the chaos of the Titans will
mean the end of Western civilization. Art, law, wine tastings,
music, video games, silk shirts, black-velvet paintings – all
the things that make life worth living will disappear!’
‘So why aren’t the gods rushing back to help us?’ I said.
‘We should combine forces at Olympus. Forget Typhon.’
He snapped his ﬁngers impatiently. ‘You forgot my Diet
Coke.’
‘Gods, you’re annoying.’ I got the attention of a waitress
and ordered the stupid soda. I put it on Bobby Earl’s tab.
Mr D took a good long drink. His eyes never left the video
game. ‘The truth is, Pierre –’
1322
‘Percy.’
‘– the other gods would never admit this, but we actually
need you mortals to rescue Olympus. You see, we are
manifestations of your culture. If you don’t care enough to
save Olympus yourselves –’
‘Like Pan,’ I said, ‘depending on the satyrs to save the
wild.’
‘Yes, quite. I will deny I ever said this, of course, but the
gods need heroes. They always have. Otherwise we would
not keep you annoying little brats around.’
‘I feel so wanted. Thanks.’
‘Use the training I have given you at camp.’
‘What training?’
‘You know. All those hero techniques and – No!’ Mr D
slapped the game console. ‘Na pari i eychi! The last level!’
He looked at me and purple ﬁre ﬂickered in his eyes. ‘As I
recall, I once predicted you would turn out to be as selﬁsh as
all the other human heroes. Well, here is your chance to
prove me wrong.’
‘Yeah, making you proud is real high on my list.’
‘You must save Olympus, Pedro! Leave Typhon to the
Olympians and save our seats of power. It must be done!’
‘Great. Nice little chat. Now, if you don’t mind, my friends
will be wondering –’
‘There is more,’ Mr D warned. ‘Kronos has not yet attained
full power. The body of the mortal was only a temporary
measure.’
‘We kind of guessed that.’
‘And did you also guess that within a day at most, Kronos
will burn away that mortal body and take on the true form of
a Titan king?’
‘And that would mean …’
Dionysus inserted another coin. ‘You know about the true
forms of the gods.’
‘Yeah. You can’t look at them without burning up.’
1323
‘Kronos would be ten times more powerful. His very
presence would incinerate you. And, once he achieves this,
he will empower the other Titans. They are weak now,
compared to what they will soon become unless you can
stop them. The world will fall, the gods will die and I will
never achieve a perfect score on this stupid machine.’
Maybe I should’ve been terriﬁed, but, honestly, I was
already about as scared as I could get.
‘Can I go now?’ I asked.
‘One last thing. My son Pollux. Is he alive?’
I blinked. ‘Yeah, last I saw him.’
‘I would very much appreciate it if you could keep him
that way. I lost his brother Castor last year –’
‘I remember.’ I stared at him, trying to wrap my mind
around the idea that Dionysus could be a caring father. I
wondered how many other Olympians were thinking about
their demigod children right now. ‘I’ll do my best.’
‘Your best,’ Dionysus muttered. ‘Well, isn’t that reassuring.
Go now. You have some nasty surprises to deal with, and I
must defeat Blinky!’
‘Nasty surprises?’
He waved his hand, and the bar disappeared.
I was back on Fifth Avenue. Annabeth hadn’t moved. She
didn’t give any sign that I’d been gone or anything.
She caught me staring and frowned. ‘What?’
‘Um … nothing, I guess.’
I gazed down the avenue, wondering what Mr D had
meant by nasty surprises. How much worse could it get?
My eyes rested on a beat-up blue car. The hood was badly
dented, like somebody had tried to hammer out some huge
craters. My skin tingled. Why did that car look so familiar?
Then I realized it was a Prius.
Paul’s Prius.
I bolted down the street.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth called. ‘Where are you going?’
1324
Paul was passed out in the driver’s seat. My mom was
snoring beside him. My mind felt like mush. How had I not
seen them before? They’d been sitting here in traﬃc for
over a day, the battle raging around them, and I hadn’t
even noticed.
‘They – they must’ve seen those blue lights in the sky.’ I
rattled the doors but they were locked. ‘I need to get them
out.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said gently.
‘I can’t leave them here!’ I sounded a little crazy. I
pounded on the windshield. ‘I have to move them. I have to
–’
‘Percy, just – just hold on.’ Annabeth waved to Chiron, who
was talking to some centaurs down the block. ‘We can push
the car to a side street, all right? They’re going to be ﬁne.’
My hands trembled. After all I’d been through over the last
few days, I felt so stupid and weak, but the sight of my
parents made me want to break down.
Chiron galloped over. ‘What’s – Oh, dear. I see.’
‘They were coming to ﬁnd me,’ I said. ‘My mom must’ve
sensed something was wrong.’
‘Most likely,’ Chiron said. ‘But, Percy, they will be ﬁne. The
best thing we can do for them is stay focused on our job.’
Then I noticed something in the backseat of the Prius, and
my heart skipped a beat. Seat-belted behind my mother
was a black-and-white Greek jar about a metre tall. Its lid
was wrapped in a leather harness.
‘No way,’ I muttered.
Annabeth pressed her hand to the window. ‘That’s
impossible! I thought you left that at the Plaza.’
‘Locked in a vault,’ I agreed.
Chiron saw the jar and his eyes widened. ‘That isn’t –’
‘Pandora’s jar.’ I told him about my meeting with
Prometheus.
‘Then the jar is yours,’ Chiron said grimly. ‘It will follow you
and tempt you to open it, no matter where you leave it. It
1325
will appear when you are weakest.’
Like now, I thought. Looking at my helpless parents.
I imagined Prometheus smiling, so anxious to help out us
poor mortals. Give up Hope, and I will know that you are
surrendering. I promise Kronos will be lenient.
Anger surged through me. I drew Riptide and cut through
the driver’s side window like it was made of plastic wrap.
‘We’ll put the car in neutral,’ I said. ‘Push them out of the
way. And take that stupid jar to Olympus.’
Chiron nodded. ‘A good plan. But, Percy …’
Whatever he was going to say, he faltered. A mechanical
drumbeat grew loud in the distance – the chop-chop-chop of
a helicopter.
On a normal Monday morning in New York, this would’ve
been no big deal, but after two days of silence, a mortal
helicopter was the oddest thing I’d ever heard. A few blocks
east, the monster army shouted and jeered as the
helicopter came into view. It was a civilian model painted
dark red, with a bright green ‘DE’ logo on the side. The
words under the logo were too small to read, but I knew
what they said: DARE ENTERPRISES.
My throat closed up. I looked at Annabeth and could tell
she recognized the logo, too. Her face was as red as the
helicopter.
‘What is she doing here?’ Annabeth demanded. ‘How did
she get through the barrier?’
‘Who?’ Chiron looked confused. ‘What mortal would be
insane enough –’
Suddenly the helicopter pitched forward.
‘The Morpheus enchantment!’ Chiron said. ‘The foolish
mortal pilot is asleep.’
I watched in horror as the helicopter careened sideways,
falling towards a row of oﬃce buildings. Even if it didn’t
crash, the gods of the air would probably swat it out of the
sky for coming near the Empire State Building.
1326
I was too paralysed to move, but Annabeth whistled and
Guido the pegasus swooped out of nowhere.
You rang for a handsome horse? he asked.
‘Come on, Percy,’ Annabeth growled. ‘We have to save
your friend.’
1327
16    We Get Help From a Thief
 
Here’s my deﬁnition of not fun. Fly a pegasus towards an
out-of-control helicopter. If Guido had been any less of a
fancy ﬂier, we would’ve been chopped to confetti.
I could hear Rachel screaming inside. For some reason,
she hadn’t fallen asleep, but I could see the pilot slumped
over the controls, pitching back and forth as the helicopter
wobbled towards the side of an oﬃce building.
‘Ideas?’ I asked Annabeth.
‘You’re going to have to take Guido and get out,’ she said.
‘What are you going to do?’
In response, she said, ‘Hyah!’ And Guido went into a
nosedive.
‘Duck!’ Annabeth yelled.
We passed so close to the rotors I felt the force of the
blades ripping at my hair. We zipped along the side of the
helicopter and Annabeth grabbed the door.
That’s when things went wrong.
Guido’s 
wing 
slammed 
against 
the 
helicopter. 
He
plummeted straight down with me on his back, leaving
Annabeth dangling from the side of the aircraft.
I was so terriﬁed I could barely think, but as Guido
spiralled I caught a glimpse of Rachel pulling Annabeth
inside the ’copter.
‘Hang in there!’ I yelled at Guido.
My wing, he moaned. It’s busted.
‘You can do it!’ I desperately tried to remember what
Silena used to tell us in pegasus-riding lessons. ‘Just relax
the wing. Extend it and glide.’
1328
We fell like a rock – straight towards the pavement a
hundred metres below. At the last moment, Guido extended
his wings. I saw the faces of centaurs gaping up at us. Then
we pulled out of our dive, sailed twenty metres and tumbled
onto the pavement – Pegasus over demigod.
Ow! Guido moaned. My legs. My head. My wings.
Chiron galloped over with his medical pouch and began
working on the pegasus.
I got to my feet. When I looked up, my heart crawled into
my throat. The helicopter was only a few seconds away from
slamming into the side of the building.
Then miraculously the helicopter righted itself. It spun in a
circle and hovered. Very slowly, it began to descend.
It seemed to take forever, but ﬁnally the helicopter
thudded to a landing in the middle of Fifth Avenue. I looked
through the windshield and couldn’t believe what I was
seeing. Annabeth was at the controls.
I ran forward as the rotors spun to a stop. Rachel opened
the side door and dragged out the pilot. Rachel was still
dressed like she was on vacation, in beach shorts, a T-shirt
and sandals. Her hair was tangled and her face was green
from the helicopter ride.
Annabeth climbed out last.
I stared at her in awe. ‘I didn’t know you could ﬂy a
helicopter.’
‘Neither did I,’ she said. ‘My dad’s crazy into aviation. Plus
Daedalus had some notes on ﬂying machines. I just took my
best guess on the controls.’
‘You saved my life,’ Rachel said.
Annabeth ﬂexed her bad shoulder. ‘Yeah, well … Let’s not
make a habit of it. What are you doing here, Dare? Don’t
you know better than to ﬂy into a warzone?’
‘I –’ Rachel glanced at me. ‘I had to be here. I knew Percy
was in trouble.’
1329
‘Got that right,’ Annabeth grumbled. ‘Well, if you’ll excuse
me, I have some injured friends I’ve got to tend to. Glad you
could stop by, Rachel.’
‘Annabeth –’ I called.
She stormed oﬀ.
Rachel plopped down on the kerb and put her head in her
hands. ‘I’m sorry, Percy. I didn’t mean to … I always mess
things up.’
It was kind of hard to argue with her, though I was glad
she was safe. I looked in the direction Annabeth had gone,
but she’d disappeared into the crowd. I couldn’t believe
what she’d just done – saved Rachel’s life, landed a
helicopter and walked away like it was no big deal.
‘It’s okay,’ I told Rachel, though my words sounded hollow.
‘So what’s the message you wanted to deliver?’
She frowned. ‘How did you know about that?’
‘A dream.’
Rachel didn’t look surprised. She tugged at her beach
shorts. They were covered in drawings, which wasn’t
unusual for her, but these symbols I recognized: Greek
letters, pictures from camp beads, sketches of monsters and
faces of gods. I didn’t understand how Rachel could have
known about some of that. She’d never been to Olympus or
Camp Half-Blood.
‘I’ve been seeing things, too,’ she muttered. ‘I mean not
just through the Mist. This is diﬀerent. I’ve been drawing
pictures, writing lines –’
‘In Ancient Greek,’ I said. ‘Do you know what they say?’
‘That’s what I wanted to talk to you about. I was hoping …
well, if you had gone with us on vacation, I was hoping you
could have helped me ﬁgure out what’s happening to me.’
She looked at me pleadingly. Her face was sunburnt from
the beach. Her nose was peeling. I couldn’t get over the
shock that she was here in person. She’d forced her family
to cut short their vacation, agreed to go to a horrible school
1330
and ﬂown a helicopter into a monster battle just to see me.
In her own way, she was as brave as Annabeth.
But what was happening to her with these visions really
freaked me out. Maybe it was something that happened to
all mortals who could see through the Mist. But my mom
had never talked about anything like that. And Hestia’s
words about Luke’s mom kept coming back to me: May
Castellan went too far. She tried to see too much.
‘Rachel,’ I said, ‘I wish I knew. Maybe we should ask Chiron
–’
She ﬂinched like she’d got an electric shock. ‘Percy,
something is about to happen. A trick that ends in death.’
‘What do you mean? Whose death?’
‘I don’t know.’ She looked around nervously. ‘Don’t you
feel it?’
‘Is that the message you wanted to tell me?’
‘No.’ She hesitated. ‘I’m sorry. I’m not making sense, but
that thought just came to me. The message I wrote on the
beach was diﬀerent. It had your name in it.’
‘Perseus,’ I remembered. ‘In Ancient Greek.’
Rachel nodded. ‘I don’t know its meaning. But I know it’s
important. You have to hear it. It said: Perseus, you are not
the hero.’
I stared at her like she’d just slapped me. ‘You came
thousands of miles to tell me I’m not the hero?’
‘It’s important,’ she insisted. ‘It will aﬀect what you do.’
‘Not the hero of the prophecy?’ I asked. ‘Not the hero who
defeats Kronos? What do you mean?’
‘I’m – I’m sorry, Percy. That’s all I know. I had to tell you
because –’
‘Well!’ Chiron cantered over. ‘This must be Miss Dare.’
I wanted to yell at him to go away, but of course I
couldn’t. I tried to get my emotions under control. I felt like I
had another personal hurricane swirling around me.
‘Chiron – Rachel Dare,’ I said. ‘Rachel – this is my teacher
Chiron.’
1331
‘Hello,’ Rachel said glumly. She didn’t look at all surprised
that Chiron was a centaur.
‘You are not asleep, Miss Dare,’ he noticed. ‘And yet you
are mortal?’
‘I’m mortal,’ she agreed, like it was a depressing thought.
‘The pilot fell asleep as soon as we passed the river. I don’t
know why I didn’t. I just knew I had to be here, to warn
Percy.’
‘Warn Percy?’
‘She’s been seeing things,’ I said. ‘Writing lines and
making drawings.’
Chiron raised an eyebrow. ‘Indeed? Tell me.’
She told him the same things she’d told me.
Chiron stroked his beard. ‘Miss Dare … perhaps we should
talk.’
‘Chiron,’ I blurted. I had a sudden terrible image of Camp
Half-Blood in the 1990s, and May Castellan’s scream coming
from that attic. ‘You – you’ll help Rachel, right? I mean, you’ll
warn her that she’s got to be careful with this stuﬀ. Not go
too far.’
His tail ﬂicked like it does when he’s anxious. ‘Yes, Percy. I
will do my best to understand what is happening and advise
Miss Dare, but this may take some time. Meanwhile, you
should rest. We’ve moved your parents’ car to safety. The
enemy seems to be staying put for now. We’ve set up bunks
in the Empire State Building. Get some sleep.’
‘Everybody keeps telling me to sleep,’ I grumbled. ‘I don’t
need sleep.’
Chiron managed a smile. ‘Have you looked at yourself
recently, Percy?’
I glanced down at my clothes, which were scorched, burnt,
sliced and tattered from my night of constant battles. ‘I look
like death,’ I admitted. ‘But you think I can sleep after what
just happened?’
‘You may be invulnerable in combat,’ Chiron chided, ‘but
that only makes your body tire faster. I remember Achilles.
1332
Whenever that lad wasn’t ﬁghting he was sleeping. He
must’ve taken twenty naps a day. You, Percy, need your
rest. You may be our only hope.’
I wanted to complain that I wasn’t their only hope.
According to Rachel, I wasn’t even the hero. But the look in
Chiron’s eyes made it clear he wasn’t going to take no for
an answer.
‘Sure,’ I grumbled. ‘Talk.’
I trudged towards the Empire State Building. When I
glanced back, Rachel and Chiron were walking together in
earnest conversation, like they were discussing funeral
arrangements.
Inside the lobby, I found an empty bunk and collapsed,
sure that I would never be able to sleep. A second later, my
eyes closed.
In my dreams, I was back in Hades’ garden. The Lord of the
Dead paced up and down, holding his ears while Nico
followed him, waving his arms.
‘You have to!’ Nico insisted.
Demeter and Persephone sat behind them at the
breakfast table. Both of the goddesses looked bored.
Demeter poured shredded wheat into four huge bowls.
Persephone was magically changing the ﬂower arrangement
on the table, turning the blossoms from red to yellow to
polka-dotted.
‘I don’t have to do anything!’ Hades’ eyes blazed. ‘I’m a
god!’
‘Father,’ Nico said, ‘if Olympus falls, your own palace’s
safety doesn’t matter. You’ll fade, too.’
‘I am not an Olympian!’ he growled. ‘My family has made
that quite clear.’
‘You are,’ Nico said. ‘Whether you like it or not.’
‘You saw what they did to your mother,’ Hades said. ‘Zeus
killed her. And you would have me help them? They deserve
what they get!’
1333
Persephone sighed. She walked her ﬁngers across the
table, absently turning the silverware into roses. ‘Could we
please not talk about that woman?’
‘You know what would help this boy?’ Demeter mused.
‘Farming.’
Persephone rolled her eyes. ‘Mother –’
‘Six 
months 
behind 
a 
plough. 
Excellent 
character
building.’
Nico stepped in front of his father, forcing Hades to face
him. ‘My mother understood about family. That’s why she
didn’t want to leave us. You can’t just abandon your family
because they did something horrible. You’ve done horrible
things to them, too.’
‘Maria died!’ Hades reminded him.
‘You can’t just cut yourself oﬀ from the other gods!’
‘I’ve done very well at it for thousands of years.’
‘And has that made you feel any better?’ Nico demanded.
‘Has that curse on the Oracle helped you at all? Holding
grudges is a fatal ﬂaw. Bianca warned me about that and
she was right.’
‘For demigods! I am immortal, all powerful! I would not
help the other gods if they begged me, if Percy Jackson
himself pleaded –’
‘You’re just as much an outcast as I am!’ Nico yelled. ‘Stop
being angry about it and do something helpful for once.
That’s the only way they’ll respect you!’
Hades’ palm ﬁlled with black ﬁre.
‘Go ahead,’ Nico said. ‘Blast me. That’s just what the
other gods would expect from you. Prove them right.’
‘Yes, please,’ Demeter complained. ‘Shut him up.’
Persephone sighed. ‘Oh, I don’t know. I would rather ﬁght
in the war than eat another bowl of cereal. This is boring.’
Hades roared in anger. His ﬁreball hit a silver tree right
next to Nico, melting it into a pool of liquid metal.
And my dream changed.
1334
I was standing outside the United Nations, about a mile
north-east of the Empire State Building. The Titan army had
set up camp all around the UN complex. The ﬂagpoles were
hung with horrible trophies – helmets and armour pieces
from defeated campers. All along First Avenue, giants
sharpened 
their 
axes. 
Telkhines 
repaired 
armour 
at
makeshift forges.
Kronos himself paced at the top of the plaza, swinging his
scythe so his dracaenae bodyguards stayed way back.
Ethan Nakamura and Prometheus stood nearby, out of
slicing range. Ethan was ﬁdgeting with his shield straps, but
Prometheus looked as calm and collected as ever in his
tuxedo.
‘I hate this place,’ Kronos growled. ‘United Nations. As if
mankind could ever unite. Remind me to tear down this
building after we destroy Olympus.’
‘Yes, lord.’ Prometheus smiled as if his master’s anger
amused him. ‘Shall we tear down the stables in Central
Park, too? I know how much horses can annoy you.’
‘Don’t mock me, Prometheus! Those cursed centaurs will
be sorry they interfered. I will feed them to the hellhounds,
starting with that son of mine – that weakling Chiron.’
Prometheus shrugged. ‘That weakling destroyed an entire
legion of telkhines with his arrows.’
Kronos swung his scythe and cut a ﬂagpole in half. The
national colours of Brazil toppled into the army, squashing a
dracaena.
‘We will destroy them!’ Kronos roared. ‘It is time to
unleash the drakon. Nakamura – you will do this.’
‘Y-yes, lord. At sunset?’
‘No,’ Kronos said. ‘Immediately. The defenders of Olympus
are badly wounded. They will not expect a quick attack.
Besides, we know this drakon they cannot beat.’
Ethan looked confused. ‘My lord?’
‘Never you mind, Nakamura. Just do my bidding. I want
Olympus in ruins by the time Typhon reaches New York. We
1335
will break the gods utterly!’
‘But, my lord,’ Ethan said. ‘Your regeneration.’
Kronos pointed at Ethan and the demigod froze.
‘Does it seem,’ Kronos hissed, ‘that I need to regenerate?’
Ethan didn’t respond. Kind of hard to do when you’re
immobilized in time.
Kronos snapped his ﬁngers and Ethan collapsed.
‘Soon,’ the Titan growled, ‘this form will be unnecessary. I
will not rest with victory so close. Now go!’
Ethan scrambled away.
‘This is dangerous, my lord,’ Prometheus warned. ‘Do not
be hasty.’
‘Hasty? After festering for three thousand years in the
depths of Tartarus, you call me hasty? I will slice Percy
Jackson into a thousand pieces.’
‘Thrice you’ve fought him,’ Prometheus pointed out. ‘And
yet you’ve always said it is beneath the dignity of a Titan to
ﬁght a mere mortal. I wonder if your mortal host is
inﬂuencing you, weakening your judgement.’
Kronos turned his golden eyes on the other Titan. ‘You call
me weak?’
‘No, my lord. I only meant –’
‘Are your loyalties divided?’ Kronos asked. ‘Perhaps you
miss your old friends, the gods. Would you like to join
them?’ Prometheus paled. ‘I misspoke, my lord. Your orders
will be carried out.’ He turned to the armies and shouted:
‘PREPARE FOR BATTLE!’
The troops began to stir.
From somewhere behind the UN compound, an angry roar
shook the city – the sound of a drakon waking. The noise
was so horrible it woke me, and I realized I could still hear it
from a mile away.
Grover stood next to me, looking nervous. ‘What was
that?’
‘They’re coming,’ I told him. ‘And we’re in trouble.’
1336
The Hephaestus cabin was out of Greek ﬁre. The Apollo
cabin and the Hunters were scrounging for arrows. Most of
us had already ingested so much ambrosia and nectar we
didn’t dare take any more.
We had sixteen campers, ﬁfteen Hunters and half a dozen
satyrs left in ﬁghting shape. The rest had taken refuge on
Olympus. The Party Ponies tried to form ranks, but they
staggered and giggled and they all smelled like root beer.
The Texans were head-butting the Coloradoans. The
Missouri branch was arguing with Illinois. The chances were
pretty good the whole army would end up ﬁghting each
other rather than the enemy.
Chiron trotted up with Rachel on his back. I felt a twinge of
annoyance, because Chiron rarely gave anyone a ride, and
never a mortal.
‘Your friend here has some useful insights, Percy,’ he said.
Rachel blushed. ‘Just some things I saw in my head.’
‘A drakon,’ Chiron said. ‘A Lydian drakon, to be exact. The
oldest and most dangerous kind.’
I stared at her. ‘How did you know that?’
‘I’m not sure,’ Rachel admitted. ‘But this drakon has a
particular fate. It will be killed by a child of Ares.’
Annabeth crossed her arms. ‘How can you possibly know
that?’
‘I just saw it. I can’t explain.’
‘Well, let’s hope you’re wrong,’ I said. ‘Because we’re a
little short on children of Ares  …’ A horrible thought
occurred to me, and I cursed in Ancient Greek.
‘What?’ Annabeth asked.
‘The spy,’ I told her. ‘Kronos said, “We know they cannot
beat this drakon.” The spy has been keeping him updated.
Kronos knows the Ares cabin isn’t with us. He intentionally
picked a monster we can’t kill.’
Thalia scowled. ‘If I ever catch your spy, he’s going to be
very sorry. Maybe we could send another messenger to
camp –’
1337
‘I’ve already done it,’ Chiron said. ‘Blackjack is on his way.
But if Silena wasn’t able to convince Clarisse, I doubt
Blackjack will be able –’
A roar shook the ground. It sounded very close.
‘Rachel,’ I said, ‘get inside the building.’
‘I want to stay.’
A shadow blotted out the sun. Across the street, the
drakon slithered down the side of a skyscraper. It roared and
a thousand windows shattered.
‘On second thoughts,’ Rachel said in a small voice, ‘I’ll be
inside.’
Let me explain: there are dragons, and then there are
drakons.
Drakons are several millennia older than dragons, and
much larger. They look like giant serpents. Most don’t have
wings. Most don’t breathe ﬁre (though some do). All are
poisonous. All are immensely strong, with scales harder
than titanium. Their eyes can paralyse you – not the turn
you to stone Medusa-type paralysis, but the oh my gods
that big snake is going to eat me type of paralysis, which is
just as bad.
We have drakon-ﬁghting classes at camp, but there is no
way to prepare yourself for a ﬁfty-metre-long serpent as
thick as a school bus slithering down the side of a building,
its yellow eyes like searchlights and its mouth full of razor-
sharp teeth big enough to chew elephants.
It almost made me long for the ﬂying pig.
Meanwhile, the enemy army advanced down Fifth Avenue.
We’d done our best to push cars out of the way to keep the
mortals safe, but that just made it easier for our enemies to
approach. The Party Ponies swished their tails nervously.
Chiron galloped up and down their ranks, shouting
encouragement to stand tough and think about victory and
root beer, but I ﬁgured any second they would panic and
run.
1338
‘I’ll take the drakon.’ My voice came out as a timid
squeak. Then I yelled louder: ‘I’LL TAKE THE DRAKON!
Everyone else, hold the line against the army!’
Annabeth stood next to me. She had pulled her owl
helmet low over her face, but I could tell her eyes were red.
‘Will you help me?’ I asked.
‘That’s what I do,’ she said miserably. ‘I help my friends.’
I felt like a complete jerk. I wanted to pull her aside and
explain that I didn’t mean for Rachel to be here, that it
wasn’t my idea, but we had no time.
‘Go invisible,’ I said. ‘Look for weak links in its armour
while I keep it busy. Just be careful.’
I whistled. ‘Mrs O’Leary, heel!’
‘ROOOF!’ My hellhound leaped over a line of centaurs and
gave me a kiss that smelled suspiciously of pepperoni pizza.
I drew my sword and we charged the monster.
The drakon was three stories above us, slithering sideways
along the building as it sized up our forces. Wherever it
looked, centaurs froze in fear.
From the north, the enemy army crashed into the Party
Ponies and our lines broke. The drakon lashed out,
swallowing three Californian centaurs in one gulp before I
could even get close.
Mrs O’Leary launched herself through the air – a deadly
black shadow with teeth and claws. Normally, a pouncing
hellhound is a terrifying sight, but next to the drakon Mrs
O’Leary looked like a child’s night-night doll.
Her claws raked harmlessly oﬀ the drakon’s scales. She bit
the monster’s throat, but couldn’t make a dent. Her weight,
however, was enough to knock the drakon oﬀ the side of the
building. It ﬂailed awkwardly and crashed to the sidewalk –
hellhound and serpent twisting and thrashing. The drakon
tried to bite Mrs O’Leary, but she was too close to the
serpent’s mouth. Poison spewed everywhere, melting
centaurs into dust along with quite a few monsters, but Mrs
1339
O’Leary weaved around the serpent’s head, scratching and
biting.
‘YAAAH!’ I plunged Riptide deep into the monster’s left
eye. The spotlight went dark. The drakon hissed and reared
back to strike, but I rolled aside.
It bit a swimming-pool-sized chunk out of the pavement. It
turned towards me with its good eye and I focused on its
teeth so I wouldn’t get paralysed. Mrs O’Leary did her best
to cause a distraction. She leaped onto the serpent’s head
and scratched and growled like a really angry black wig.
The rest of the battle wasn’t going well. Centaurs
panicked under the onslaught of giants and demons. An
occasional orange camp T-shirt appeared in the sea of
ﬁghting, but it quickly disappeared. Arrows screamed. Fire
exploded in waves across both armies, but the action was
moving across the street to the entrance of the Empire
State Building. We were losing ground.
Suddenly Annabeth materialized on the drakon’s back.
Her invisibility cap rolled oﬀ her head as she drove her
bronze knife between a chink in the serpent’s scales.
The drakon roared. It coiled around, knocking Annabeth
oﬀ its back.
I reached her just as she hit the ground. I dragged her out
of the way as the serpent rolled, crushing a lamppost right
where she’d been.
‘Thanks,’ she said.
‘I told you to be careful!’
‘Yeah, well – DUCK!’
It was her turn to save me. She tackled me as the
monster’s teeth snapped above my head. Mrs O’Leary body-
slammed the drakon’s face to get its attention and we rolled
out of the way.
Meanwhile, our allies had retreated to the doors of the
Empire State Building. The entire enemy army was
surrounding them.
1340
We were out of options. No more help was coming.
Annabeth and I would have to retreat before we were cut oﬀ
from Mount Olympus.
Then I heard a rumbling in the south. It wasn’t a sound
you hear much in New York, but I recognized it immediately:
chariot wheels.
A girl’s voice yelled, ‘ARES!’
And a dozen war chariots charged into battle. Each ﬂew a
red banner with the symbol of the wild boar’s head. Each
was pulled by a team of skeletal horses with manes of ﬁre. A
total of thirty fresh warriors, armour gleaming and eyes full
of hate, lowered their lances as one – making a bristling wall
of death.
‘The children of Ares!’ Annabeth said in amazement. ‘How
did Rachel know?’
I didn’t have an answer. But leading the charge was a girl
in familiar red armour, her face covered by a boar’s head
helm. She held aloft a spear that crackled with electricity.
Clarisse herself had come to the rescue. While half her
chariots charged the monster army, Clarisse led the other
six straight for the drakon.
The serpent reared back and managed to throw oﬀ Mrs
O’Leary. My poor pet hit the side of the building with a yelp.
I ran to help her, but the serpent had already zeroed in on
the new threat. Even with only one eye, its glare was
enough to paralyse two chariot drivers. They veered into a
line of cars. The other four chariots kept charging. The
monster bared its fangs to strike and got a mouthful of
celestial bronze javelins.
‘EEESSSSS!’ it screamed, which was probably drakon for
OWWWW!
‘Ares, to me!’ Clarisse screamed. Her voice sounded
shriller than usual, but I guess that wasn’t surprising given
what she was ﬁghting.
Across the street, the arrival of six chariots gave the Party
Ponies new hope. They rallied at the doors of the Empire
1341
State Building, and the enemy army was momentarily
thrown into confusion.
Meanwhile, Clarisse’s chariots circled the drakon. Lances
broke against the monster’s skin. Skeletal horses breathed
ﬁre and whinnied. Two more chariots overturned, but the
warriors simply leaped to their feet, drew their swords and
went to work. They hacked at chinks in the creature’s
scales. They dodged poison spray like they’d been training
for this all their lives, which of course they had.
No one could say the Ares campers weren’t brave.
Clarisse was right there in front, stabbing her spear at the
drakon’s face, trying to put out its other eye. But, as I
watched, things started to go wrong. The drakon snapped
up one Ares camper in a gulp. It knocked aside another and
sprayed poison on a third, who retreated in a panic, his
armour melting.
‘We have to help,’ Annabeth said.
She was right. I’d just been standing there frozen in
amazement. Mrs O’Leary tried to get up but yelped again.
One of her paws was bleeding.
‘Stay back, girl,’ I told her. ‘You’ve done enough already.’
Annabeth and I jumped onto the monster’s back and ran
towards its head, trying to draw its attention away from
Clarisse.
Her cabin mates threw javelins, most of which broke, but
some lodged in the monster’s teeth. It snapped its jaws
together until its mouth was a mess of green blood, yellow
foamy poison and splintered weapons.
‘You can do it!’ I screamed at Clarisse. ‘A child of Ares is
destined to kill it!’
Through her war helmet, I could only see her eyes – but I
could tell something was wrong. Her blue eyes shone with
fear. Clarisse never looked like that. And she didn’t have
blue eyes.
‘ARES!’ she shouted, in that strangely shrill voice. She
levelled her spear and charged the drakon.
1342
‘No,’ I muttered. ‘WAIT!’
But the monster looked down at her – almost in contempt
– and spat poison directly in her face.
She screamed and fell.
‘Clarisse!’ Annabeth jumped oﬀ the monster’s back and
ran to help while the other Ares campers tried to defend
their fallen counsellor. I drove Riptide between two of the
creature’s scales and managed to turn its attention on me.
I got thrown but I landed on my feet. ‘C’MON, you stupid
worm! Look at me!’
For the next several minutes, all I saw were teeth. I
retreated and dodged poison, but I couldn’t hurt the thing.
At the edge of my vision, I saw a ﬂying chariot land on
Fifth Avenue.
Then someone ran towards us. A girl’s voice, shaken with
grief, cried, ‘NO! Curse you, WHY?’
I dared to glance over, but what I saw made no sense.
Clarisse was lying on the ground where she’d fallen. Her
armour smoked with poison. Annabeth and the Ares
campers were trying to unfasten her helmet. And kneeling
next to them, her face blotchy with tears, was a girl in camp
clothes. It was … Clarisse.
My head spun. Why hadn’t I noticed before? The girl in
Clarisse’s armour was much thinner, not as tall. But why
would someone pretend to be Clarisse?
I was so stunned the drakon almost snapped me in half. I
dodged and the beast buried its head in a brick wall.
‘WHY?’ the real Clarisse demanded, holding the other girl
in her arms while the campers struggled to remove the
poison-corroded helmet.
Chris Rodriguez ran over from the ﬂying chariot. He and
Clarisse must’ve ridden it here from camp, chasing the Ares
campers, who’d mistakenly been following the other girl,
thinking she was Clarisse. But it still made no sense.
The drakon tugged its head from the brick wall and
screamed in rage.
1343
‘Look out!’ Chris warned.
Instead of turning towards me, the drakon whirled towards
the sound of Chris’s voice. It bared its fangs at the group of
demigods.
The real Clarisse looked up at the drakon. Her face ﬁlled
with absolute hate. I’d seen a look that intense only once
before. Her father Ares had worn the same expression when
I’d fought him in single combat.
‘YOU WANT DEATH?’ Clarisse screamed at the drakon.
‘WELL, COME ON!’
She grabbed her spear from the fallen girl. With no armour
or shield, she charged the drakon.
I tried to close the distance to help, but Clarisse was
faster. She leaped aside as the monster struck, pulverizing
the ground in front of her. Then she jumped onto the
creature’s head. As it reared up, she drove her electric spear
into its good eye with so much force it shattered the shaft,
releasing all of the magic weapon’s power.
Electricity arced across the creature’s head, causing its
whole body to shudder. Clarisse jumped free, rolling safely
to the sidewalk as smoke boiled from the drakon’s mouth.
The drakon’s ﬂesh dissolved, and it collapsed into a hollow
scaly tunnel of armour.
The rest of us stared at Clarisse in awe. I had never seen
anyone take down such a huge monster single-handedly.
But Clarisse didn’t seem to care. She ran back to the
wounded girl who’d stolen her armour.
Finally Annabeth managed to remove the girl’s helmet. We
all gathered around – the Ares campers, Chris, Clarisse,
Annabeth and me. The battle still raged along Fifth Avenue,
but for that moment nothing existed except our small circle
and the fallen girl.
Her features, once beautiful, were badly burned from
poison. I could tell that no amount of nectar or ambrosia
would save her.
1344
Something is about to happen. Rachel’s words rang in my
ears. A trick that ends in death.
Now I knew what she meant, and I knew who had led the
Ares cabin into battle.
I looked down at the dying face of Silena Beauregard.
1345
17    I Sit on The Hot Seat
 
‘What were you thinking?’ Clarisse cradled Silena’s head in
her lap.
Silena tried to swallow, but her lips were dry and cracked.
‘Wouldn’t … listen. Cabin would … only follow you.’
‘So you stole my armour,’ Clarisse said in disbelief. ‘You
waited until Chris and I went out on patrol, you stole my
armour and pretended to be me.’ She glared at her siblings.
‘And NONE of you noticed?’
The Ares campers developed a sudden interest in their
combat boots.
‘Don’t blame them,’ Silena said. ‘They wanted to  … to
believe I was you.’
‘You stupid Aphrodite girl,’ Clarisse sobbed. ‘You charged a
drakon? Why?’
‘All my fault,’ Silena said, a tear streaking the side of her
face. ‘The drakon, Charlie’s death … camp endangered –’
‘Stop it!’ Clarisse said. ‘That’s not true.’
Silena opened her hand. In her palm was a silver bracelet
with a scythe charm – the mark of Kronos.
A cold ﬁst closed around my heart. ‘You were the spy.’
Silena tried to nod. ‘Before – before I liked Charlie, Luke
was nice to me. He was so – charming. Handsome. Later, I
wanted to stop helping him, but he threatened to tell. He
promised  … he promised I was saving lives. Fewer people
would get hurt. He told me he wouldn’t hurt – Charlie. He
lied to me.’
I met Annabeth’s eyes. Her face was chalky. She looked
like somebody had just yanked the world out from under her
1346
feet.
Behind us, the battle raged.
Clarisse scowled at her cabin mates. ‘Go, help the
centaurs. Protect the doors. GO!’
They scrambled oﬀ to join the ﬁght.
Silena took a heavy, painful breath. ‘Forgive me.’
‘You’re not dying,’ Clarisse insisted.
‘Charlie …’ Silena’s eyes were a million miles away. ‘See
Charlie …’
She didn’t speak again.
Clarisse held her and wept. Chris put a hand on her
shoulder.
Finally Annabeth closed Silena’s eyes.
‘We have to ﬁght.’ Annabeth’s voice was brittle. ‘She gave
her life to help us. We have to honour her.’
Clarisse sniﬄed and wiped her nose. ‘She was a hero,
understand? A hero.’
I nodded. ‘Come on, Clarisse.’
She picked up a sword from one of her fallen siblings.
‘Kronos is going to pay.’
I’d like to say I drove the enemy away from the Empire State
Building. The truth was Clarisse did all the work. Even
without her armour or spear, she was a demon. She rode
her chariot straight into the Titans’ army and crushed
everything in her path.
She was so inspiring even the panicked centaurs started
to rally. The Hunters scrounged arrows from the fallen and
launched volley after volley into the enemy. The Ares cabin
slashed and hacked, which was their favourite thing. The
monsters retreated towards Thirty-ﬁfth Street.
Clarisse drove to the drakon’s carcass and looped a
grappling line through its eye sockets. She lashed her
horses and took oﬀ, dragging the drakon behind the chariot
like a Chinese New Year dragon. She charged after the
enemy, yelling insults and daring them to cross her. As she
1347
rode, I realized she was literally glowing. An aura of red ﬁre
ﬂickered around her.
‘The blessing of Ares,’ Thalia said. ‘I’ve never seen it in
person before.’
For the moment, Clarisse was as invincible as I was. The
enemy threw spears and arrows, but nothing hit her.
‘I AM CLARISSE, DRAKON-SLAYER!’ she yelled. ‘I will kill
you ALL! Where is Kronos? Bring him out! Is he a coward?’
‘Clarisse!’ I yelled. ‘Stop it. Withdraw!’
‘What’s the matter, Titan lord?’ she yelled. ‘BRING IT ON!’
There was no answer from the enemy. Slowly, they began
to fall back behind a dracaenae shield wall, while Clarisse
drove in circles around Fifth Avenue, daring anyone to cross
her path. The ﬁfty-metre-long drakon carcass made a hollow
scraping noise against the pavement, like a thousand
knives.
Meanwhile, we tended our wounded, bringing them inside
the lobby. Long after the enemy had retreated from sight,
Clarisse kept riding up and down the avenue with her
horrible trophy, demanding that Kronos meet her in battle.
Chris said, ‘I’ll watch her. She’ll get tired eventually. I’ll
make sure she comes inside.’
‘What about the camp?’ I asked. ‘Is anybody left there?’
Chris shook his head. ‘Only Argus and the nature spirits.
Peleus the dragon is still guarding the tree.’
‘They won’t last long,’ I said. ‘But I’m glad you came.’
Chris nodded sadly. ‘I’m sorry it took so long. I tried to
reason with Clarisse. I said there’s no point in defending
camp if you guys die. All our friends are here. I’m sorry it
took Silena …’
‘My Hunters will help you stand guard,’ Thalia said.
‘Annabeth and Percy, you should go to Olympus. I have a
feeling they’ll need you up there – to set up the ﬁnal
defence.’
1348
The doorman had disappeared from the lobby. His book was
face down on the desk and his chair was empty. The rest of
the lobby, however, was jam-packed with wounded
campers, Hunters and satyrs.
Connor and Travis Stoll met us by the elevators.
‘Is it true?’ Connor asked. ‘About Silena?’
I nodded. ‘She died a hero.’
Travis shifted uncomfortably. ‘Um, I also heard –’
‘That’s it,’ I insisted. ‘End of story.’
‘Right,’ Travis mumbled. ‘Listen, we ﬁgure the Titans’
army will have trouble getting up the elevator. They’ll have
to go up a few at a time. And the giants won’t be able to ﬁt
at all.’
‘That’s our biggest advantage,’ I said. ‘Any way to disable
the elevator?’
‘It’s magic,’ Travis said. ‘Usually you need a key card, but
the doorman vanished. That means the defences are
crumbling. Anyone can walk into the elevator now and head
straight up.’
‘Then we have to keep them away from the doors,’ I said.
‘We’ll bottle them up in the lobby.’
‘We need reinforcements,’ Travis said. ‘They’ll just keep
coming. Eventually they’ll overwhelm us.’
‘There are no reinforcements,’ Connor complained.
I looked outside at Mrs O’Leary, who was breathing
against the glass doors and smearing them with hellhound
drool.
‘Maybe that’s not true,’ I said.
I went outside and put a hand on Mrs O’Leary’s muzzle.
Chiron had bandaged her paw, but she was still limping. Her
fur was matted with mud, leaves, pizza slices and dried
monster blood.
‘Hey, girl.’ I tried to sound upbeat. ‘I know you’re tired,
but I’ve got one more big favour to ask you.’
I leaned next to her and whispered in her ear.
1349
After Mrs O’Leary had shadow-travelled away, I rejoined
Annabeth in the lobby. On the way to the elevator, we
spotted Grover kneeling over a fat wounded satyr.
‘Leneus!’ I said.
The old satyr looked terrible. His lips were blue. There was
a broken spear in his belly and his furry goat legs were
twisted at a painful angle.
He tried to focus on us, but I don’t think he saw us.
‘Grover?’ he murmured.
‘I’m here, Leneus.’ Grover was blinking back tears, despite
all the horrible things Leneus had said about him.
‘Did – did we win?’
‘Um … yes,’ Grover lied. ‘Thanks to you, Leneus. We drove
the enemy away.’
‘Told you,’ the old satyr mumbled. ‘True leader. True …’
He closed his eyes for the last time.
Grover gulped. He put his hand on Leneus’s forehead and
spoke an ancient blessing. The old satyr’s body melted, until
all that was left was a tiny sapling in a pile of fresh soil.
‘A laurel,’ Grover said in awe. ‘Oh, that lucky old goat.’
He gathered up the sapling in his hands. ‘I – I should plant
him. In Olympus, in the gardens.’
‘We’re going that way,’ I said. ‘Come on.’
Easy-listening music played as the elevator rose. I thought
about the ﬁrst time I’d visited Mount Olympus, back when I
was twelve. Annabeth and Grover hadn’t been with me
then. I was glad they were with me now. I had a feeling it
might be our last adventure together.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said quietly. ‘You were right about Luke.’
It was the ﬁrst time she’d spoken since Silena Beauregard’s
death. She kept her eyes ﬁxed on the elevator ﬂoors as they
blinked into the magical numbers – 400, 450, 500.
Grover and I exchanged glances.
‘Annabeth,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry –’
‘You tried to tell me.’ Her voice was shaky. ‘Luke is no
good. I didn’t believe you until – until I heard how he’d used
1350
Silena. Now I know. I hope you’re happy.’
‘That doesn’t make me happy.’
She put her head against the elevator wall and wouldn’t
look at me.
Grover cradled his laurel sapling in his hands. ‘Well … sure
good to be together again. Arguing. Almost dying. Abject
terror. Oh, look. It’s our ﬂoor.’
The doors dinged and we stepped onto the aerial walkway.
Depressing is not a word that usually describes Mount
Olympus, but it looked that way now. No ﬁres lit the
braziers. The windows were dark. The streets were deserted
and the doors were barred. The only movement was in the
parks, which had been set up as ﬁeld hospitals. Will Solace
and the other Apollo campers scrambled around, caring for
the wounded. Naiads and dryads tried to help, using nature
magic songs to heal burns and poison.
As Grover planted the laurel sapling, Annabeth and I went
around trying to cheer up the wounded. I passed a satyr
with a broken leg, a demigod who was bandaged from head
to toe and a body covered in the golden burial shroud of
Apollo’s cabin. I didn’t know who was underneath. I didn’t
want to ﬁnd out.
My heart felt like lead, but we tried to ﬁnd positive things
to say.
‘You’ll be up and ﬁghting Titans in no time!’ I told one
camper.
‘You look great,’ Annabeth told another camper.
‘Leneus turned into a shrub!’ Grover told a groaning satyr.
I found Dionysus’ son Pollux propped up against a tree. He
had a broken arm, but otherwise he was okay.
‘I can still ﬁght with the other hand,’ he said, gritting his
teeth.
‘No,’ I said. ‘You’ve done enough. I want you to stay here
and help with the wounded.’
‘But –’
‘Promise me to stay safe,’ I said. ‘Okay? Personal favour.’
1351
He frowned uncertainly. It wasn’t like we were good
friends or anything, but I wasn’t going to tell him it was a
request from his dad. That would just embarrass him. Finally
he promised, and when he sat back down, I could tell he
was kind of relieved.
Annabeth, Grover and I kept walking towards the palace.
That’s where Kronos would head. As soon as he made it up
the elevator – and I had no doubt he would, one way or
another – he would destroy the throne room, the centre of
the gods’ power.
The bronze doors creaked open. Our footsteps echoed on
the marble ﬂoor. The constellations twinkled coldly on the
ceiling of the great hall. The hearth was down to a dull red
glow. Hestia, in the form of a little girl in brown robes,
hunched at its edge, shivering. The Ophiotaurus swam sadly
in his sphere of water. He let out a half-hearted Moo when
he saw me.
In the ﬁrelight, the thrones cast evil-looking shadows, like
grasping hands.
Standing at the foot of Zeus’s throne, looking up at the
stars, was Rachel Elizabeth Dare. She was holding a Greek
ceramic vase.
‘Rachel?’ I said. ‘Um, what are you doing with that?’
She focused on me as if she were coming out of a dream.
‘I found it. It’s Pandora’s jar, isn’t it?’
Her eyes were brighter than usual, and I had a bad
ﬂashback of mouldy sandwiches and burnt cookies.
‘Please put down the jar,’ I said.
‘I can see Hope inside it.’ Rachel ran her ﬁngers over the
ceramic designs. ‘So fragile.’
‘Rachel.’
My voice seemed to bring her back to reality. She held out
the jar and I took it. The clay felt as cold as ice.
‘Grover,’ Annabeth mumbled. ‘Let’s scout around the
palace. Maybe we can ﬁnd some extra Greek ﬁre or
Hephaestus traps.’
1352
‘But –’
Annabeth elbowed him.
‘Right!’ he yelped. ‘I love traps!’
She dragged him out of the throne room.
Over by the ﬁre, Hestia was huddled in her robes, rocking
back and forth.
‘Come on,’ I told Rachel. ‘I want you to meet someone.’
We sat next to the goddess.
‘Lady Hestia,’ I said.
‘Hello, Percy Jackson,’ the goddess murmured. ‘Getting
colder. Harder to keep the ﬁre going.’
‘I know,’ I said. ‘The Titans are near.’
Hestia focused on Rachel. ‘Hello, my dear. You’ve come to
our hearth at last.’
Rachel blinked. ‘You’ve been expecting me?’
Hestia held out her hands and the coals glowed. I saw
images in the ﬁre: my mother, Paul and I eating
Thanksgiving dinner at the kitchen table; my friends and me
around the campﬁre at Camp Half-Blood, singing songs and
roasting marshmallows; Rachel and me driving along the
beach in Paul’s Prius.
I didn’t know if Rachel saw the same images, but the
tension went out of her shoulders. The warmth of the ﬁre
seemed to spread across her.
‘To claim your place at the hearth,’ Hestia told her, ‘you
must let go of your distractions. It is the only way you will
survive.’
Rachel nodded. ‘I – I understand.’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘What is she talking about?’
Rachel took a shaky breath. ‘Percy, when I came here … I
thought I was coming for you. But I wasn’t. You and me …’
She shook her head.
‘Wait. Now I’m a distraction? Is this because I’m “not the
hero” or whatever?’
‘I’m not sure I can put it into words,’ she said. ‘I was
drawn to you because … because you opened the door to all
1353
of this.’ She gestured at the throne room. ‘I needed to
understand my true sight. But you and me – that wasn’t part
of it. Our fates aren’t intertwined. I think you’ve always
known that, deep down.’
I stared at her. Maybe I wasn’t the brightest guy in the
world when it came to girls, but I was pretty sure Rachel had
just dumped me, which was lame considering we’d never
even been together.
‘So … what,’ I said. ‘“Thanks for bringing me to Olympus.
See ya?” Is that what you’re saying?’
Rachel stared at the ﬁre.
‘Percy Jackson,’ Hestia said. ‘Rachel has told you all she
can. Her moment is coming, but your decision approaches
even more rapidly. Are you prepared?’
I wanted to complain that, no, I wasn’t even close to
prepared.
I looked at Pandora’s jar and for the ﬁrst time, I had an
urge to open it. Hope seemed pretty useless to me right
now. So many of my friends were dead. Rachel was cutting
me oﬀ. Annabeth was angry with me. My parents were
asleep down in the streets somewhere while a monster
army surrounded the building. Olympus was on the verge of
falling, and I’d seen so many cruel things the gods had
done: Zeus destroying Maria di Angelo, Hades cursing the
last Oracle, Hermes turning his back on Luke even when he
knew his son would become evil.
Surrender, Prometheus’s voice whispered in my ear.
Otherwise your home will be destroyed. Your precious camp
will burn.
Then I looked at Hestia. Her red eyes glowed warmly. I
remembered the images I’d seen in her hearth – friends and
family, everyone I cared about.
I remembered something Chris Rodriguez had said:
There’s no point in defending camp if you guys die. All our
friends are here. And Nico, standing up to his father Hades:
1354
If Olympus falls, he said, your own palace’s safety doesn’t
matter.
I heard footsteps. Annabeth and Grover came back into
the throne room and stopped when they saw us. I probably
had a pretty strange look on my face.
‘Percy?’ Annabeth didn’t sound angry any more – just
concerned. ‘Should we, um, leave again?’
Suddenly I felt like someone had injected me with steel. I
understood what to do.
I looked at Rachel. ‘You’re not going to do anything stupid,
are you? I mean … you talked to Chiron, right?’
She managed a faint smile. ‘You’re worried about me
doing something stupid?’
‘But I mean – will you be okay?’
‘I don’t know,’ she admitted. ‘That kind of depends on
whether you save the world, hero.’
I picked up Pandora’s jar. The spirit of Hope ﬂuttered
inside, trying to warm the cold container.
‘Hestia,’ I said, ‘I give this to you as an oﬀering.’
The goddess tilted her head. ‘I am the least of the gods.
Why would you trust me with this?’
‘You’re the last Olympian,’ I said. ‘And the most
important.’
‘And why is that, Percy Jackson?’
‘Because Hope survives best at the hearth,’ I said. ‘Guard
it for me, and I won’t be tempted to give up again.’
The goddess smiled. She took the jar in her hands and it
began to glow. The hearth ﬁre burned a little brighter.
‘Well done, Percy Jackson,’ she said. ‘May the gods bless
you.’
‘We’re about to ﬁnd out.’ I looked at Annabeth and Grover.
‘Come on, guys.’
I marched towards my father’s throne.
The seat of Poseidon stood just to the right of Zeus’s, but it
wasn’t nearly as grand. The moulded black leather seat was
1355
attached to a swivel pedestal, with a couple of iron rings on
the side for fastening a ﬁshing pole (or a trident). Basically it
looked like a chair on a deep-sea boat that you would sit in
if you wanted to hunt shark or marlin or sea monsters.
Gods in their natural state are about six metres tall, so I
could just reach the edge of the seat if I stretched my arms.
‘Help me up,’ I told Annabeth and Grover.
‘Are you crazy?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Probably,’ I admitted.
‘Percy,’ Grover said, ‘the gods really don’t appreciate
people sitting in their thrones. I mean, like, turn you into a
pile of ashes don’t appreciate it.’
‘I need to get his attention,’ I said. ‘It’s the only way.’
They exchanged uneasy looks.
‘Well,’ Annabeth said, ‘this’ll get his attention.’
They linked their arms to make a step then boosted me
onto the throne. I felt like a baby with my feet so high oﬀ
the ground. I looked around at the other gloomy, empty
thrones, and I could imagine what it would be like sitting on
the Olympian Council – so much power, but so much
arguing, always eleven other gods trying to get their way. It
would be easy to get paranoid, to look out only for my own
interest, especially if I were Poseidon. Sitting in his throne, I
felt like I had the entire sea at my command – vast cubic
miles of ocean churning with power and mystery. Why
should Poseidon listen to anyone? Why shouldn’t he be the
greatest of the twelve?
Then I shook my head. Concentrate.
The throne rumbled. A wave of gale-force anger slammed
into my mind:
WHO DARES –
The voice stopped abruptly. The anger retreated, which
was a good thing, because just those two words had almost
blasted my mind to shreds.
Percy. My father’s voice was still angry but more
controlled. What – exactly – are you doing on my throne?
1356
‘I’m sorry, Father,’ I said. ‘I needed to get your attention.’
This was a very dangerous thing to do. Even for you. If I
hadn’t looked before I blasted, you would now be a puddle
of seawater.
‘I’m sorry,’ I said again. ‘Listen, things are rough up here.’
I told him what was happening. Then I told him my plan.
His voice was silent for a long time.
Percy, what you ask is impossible. My palace –
‘Dad, Kronos sent an army against you on purpose. He
wants to divide you from the other gods because he knows
you could tip the scales.’
Be that as it may, he attacks my home.
‘I’m at your home,’ I said. ‘Olympus.’
The ﬂoor shook. A wave of anger washed over my mind. I
thought I’d gone too far, but then the trembling eased. In
the background of my mental link, I heard underwater
explosions and the sound of battle cries – Cyclopes
bellowing, mermen shouting.
‘Is Tyson okay?’ I asked.
The question seemed to take my dad by surprise. He’s
ﬁne. Doing much better than I expected. Though ‘peanut
butter’ is a strange battle cry.
‘You let him ﬁght?’
Stop changing the subject! You realize what you are
asking me to do? My palace will be destroyed.
‘And Olympus might be saved.’
Do you have any idea how long I’ve worked on
remodelling this palace? The game room alone took six
hundred years.
‘Dad –’
Very well! It shall be as you say. But, my son, pray this
works.
‘I am praying. I’m talking to you, right?’
Oh … yes. Good point. Amphitrite – incoming!
The sound of a large explosion shattered our connection.
I slipped down from the throne.
1357
Grover studied me nervously. ‘Are you okay? You turned
pale and … you started smoking.’
‘I did not!’ Then I looked at my arms. Steam was curling
oﬀ my shirtsleeves. The hair on my arms was singed.
‘If you’d sat there any longer,’ Annabeth said, ‘you
would’ve spontaneously combusted. I hope the conversation
was worth it?’
Moo, said the Ophiotaurus in his sphere of water.
‘We’ll ﬁnd out soon,’ I said.
Just then the doors of the throne room swung open. Thalia
marched in. Her bow was snapped in half and her quiver
was empty.
‘You’ve got to get down there,’ she told us. ‘The enemy is
advancing. And Kronos is leading them.’
1358
18    My Parents Go Commando
 
By the time we got to the street, it was too late.
Campers and Hunters lay wounded on the ground.
Clarisse must’ve lost a ﬁght with a Hyperborean giant,
because she and her chariot were frozen in a block of ice.
The centaurs were nowhere to be seen. Either they’d
panicked and ran or they’d been disintegrated.
The Titan army ringed the building, standing maybe ten
metres from the doors. Kronos’s vanguard was in the lead –
Ethan Nakamura, the dracaena queen in her green armour
and two Hyperboreans. I didn’t see Prometheus. The slimy
weasel was probably hiding back at their headquarters. But
Kronos himself stood right in front with his scythe in hand.
The only thing standing in his way was …
‘Chiron,’ Annabeth said, her voice trembling.
If Chiron heard us, he didn’t answer. He had an arrow
notched, aimed straight at Kronos’s face.
As soon as Kronos saw me, his gold eyes ﬂared. Every
muscle in my body froze. Then the Titan lord turned his
attention back to Chiron. ‘Step aside, little son.’
Hearing Luke call Chiron his son was weird enough, but
Kronos put contempt in his voice, like son was the worst
word he could think of.
‘I’m afraid not.’ Chiron’s tone was steely calm, the way he
gets when he’s really angry.
I tried to move, but my feet felt like concrete. Annabeth,
Grover and Thalia were straining, too, like they were just as
stuck.
‘Chiron!’ Annabeth said. ‘Look out!’
1359
The dracaena queen became impatient and charged.
Chiron’s arrow ﬂew straight between her eyes and she
vaporized on the spot, her empty armour clattering to the
tarmac.
Chiron reached for another arrow, but his quiver was
empty. He dropped the bow and drew his sword. I knew he
hated ﬁghting with a sword. It was never his favourite
weapon.
Kronos chuckled. He advanced a step and Chiron’s horse
half skittered nervously. His tail ﬂicked back and forth.
‘You’re a teacher,’ Kronos sneered. ‘Not a hero.’
‘Luke was a hero,’ Chiron said. ‘He was a good one, until
you corrupted him.’
‘FOOL!’ Kronos’s voice shook the city. ‘You ﬁlled his head
with empty promises. You said the gods cared about me!’
‘Me,’ Chiron noticed. ‘You said me.’
Kronos looked confused, and in that moment, Chiron
struck. It was a good manoeuvre – a feint followed by a
strike to the face. I couldn’t have done better myself, but
Kronos was quick. He had all of Luke’s ﬁghting skill, which
was a lot. He knocked aside Chiron’s blade and yelled,
‘BACK!’
A blinding white light exploded between the Titan and the
centaur. Chiron ﬂew into the side of the building with such
force the wall crumbled and collapsed on top of him.
‘No!’ Annabeth wailed. The freezing spell broke. We ran
towards our teacher, but there was no sign of him. Thalia
and I pulled helplessly at the bricks while a ripple of ugly
laughter ran through the Titans’ army.
‘YOU!’ Annabeth turned on Luke. ‘To think that I – that I
thought –’
She drew her knife.
‘Annabeth, don’t.’ I tried to take her arm, but she shook
me oﬀ.
She attacked Kronos, and his smug smile faded. Perhaps
some part of Luke remembered that he used to like this girl,
1360
used to take care of her when she was little. She plunged
her knife between the straps of his armour, right at his
collarbone. The blade should’ve sunk into his chest. Instead
it bounced oﬀ. Annabeth doubled over, clutching her arm to
her stomach. The jolt might’ve been enough to dislocate her
bad shoulder.
I yanked her back as Kronos swung his scythe, slicing the
air where she’d been standing.
She fought me and screamed, ‘I HATE you!’ I wasn’t sure
who she was talking to – me or Luke or Kronos. Tears
streaked the dust on her face.
‘I have to ﬁght him,’ I told her.
‘It’s my ﬁght, too, Percy!’
Kronos laughed. ‘So much spirit. I can see why Luke
wanted to spare you. Unfortunately, that won’t be possible.’
He raised his scythe. I got ready to defend, but before
Kronos could strike, a dog’s howl pierced the air somewhere
behind the Titans’ army. ‘Arroooooooo!’
It was too much to hope, but I called, ‘Mrs O’Leary?’
The enemy forces stirred uneasily. Then the strangest
thing happened. They began to part, clearing a path
through the street like something behind them was forcing
them to.
Soon there was a free aisle down the centre of Fifth
Avenue. Standing at the end of the block was my giant dog
and a small ﬁgure in black armour.
‘Nico?’ I called.
‘ROWWF!’ Mrs O’Leary bounded towards me, ignoring the
growling monsters on either side. Nico strode forward. The
enemy army fell back before him like he radiated death,
which of course he did.
Through the face guard of his skull-shaped helmet, he
smiled. ‘Got your message. Is it too late to join the party?’
‘Son of Hades.’ Kronos spat on the ground. ‘Do you love
death so much you wish to experience it?’
‘Your death,’ Nico said, ‘would be great for me.’
1361
‘I’m immortal, you fool! I have escaped Tartarus. You have
no business here, and no chance to live.’
Nico drew his sword – a metre long of wicked sharp
Stygian iron, black as a nightmare. ‘I don’t agree.’
The ground rumbled. Cracks appeared in the road, the
sidewalks, the sides of the buildings. Skeletal hands grasped
the air as the dead clawed their way into the world of the
living. There were thousands of them, and as they emerged,
the Titans’ monsters got jumpy and started to back up.
‘HOLD YOUR GROUND!’ Kronos demanded. ‘The dead are
no match for us.’
The sky turned dark and cold. Shadows thickened. A harsh
war horn sounded, and as the dead soldiers formed up ranks
with their guns and swords and spears, an enormous chariot
roared down Fifth Avenue. It came to a stop next to Nico.
The horses were living shadows, fashioned from darkness.
The chariot was inlaid with obsidian and gold, decorated
with scenes of painful death. Holding the reins was Hades
himself, Lord of the Dead, with Demeter and Persephone
riding behind him.
Hades wore black armour and a cloak the colour of fresh
blood. On top of his pale head was the helm of darkness: a
crown that radiated pure terror. It changed shape as I
watched – from a dragon’s head to a circle of black ﬂames
to a wreath of human bones. But that wasn’t the scary part.
The helm reached into my mind and ignited my worst
nightmares, my most secret fears. I wanted to crawl into a
hole and hide, and I could tell the enemy army felt the same
way. Only Kronos’s power and authority kept his ranks from
ﬂeeing.
Hades smiled coldly. ‘Hello, Father. You’re looking  …
young.’
‘Hades,’ Kronos growled. ‘I hope you and the ladies have
come to pledge your allegiance.’
‘I’m afraid not.’ Hades sighed. ‘My son here convinced me
that perhaps I should prioritize my list of enemies.’ He
1362
glanced at me with distaste. ‘As much as I dislike certain
upstart demigods, it would not do for Olympus to fall. I
would miss bickering with my siblings. And if there is one
thing we agree on – it is that you were a TERRIBLE father.’
‘True,’ muttered Demeter. ‘No appreciation of agriculture.’
‘Mother!’ Persephone complained.
Hades drew his sword, a double-edged Stygian blade
etched with silver. ‘Now ﬁght me! For today the House of
Hades will be called the saviours of Olympus.’
‘I don’t have time for this,’ Kronos snarled.
He struck the ground with his scythe. A crack spread in
both directions, circling the Empire State Building. A wall of
force shimmered along the ﬁssure line, separating Kronos’s
vanguard, my friends and me from the bulk of the two
armies.
‘What’s he doing?’ I muttered.
‘Sealing us in,’ Thalia said. ‘He’s collapsing the magic
barriers around Manhattan – cutting oﬀ just the building,
and us.’
Sure enough, outside the barrier, car engines revved to
life. Pedestrians woke up and stared uncomprehendingly at
the monsters and zombies all around them. No telling what
they saw through the Mist, but I’m sure it was plenty scary.
Car doors opened. And at the end of the block, Paul Bloﬁs
and my mom got out of their Prius.
‘No,’ I said. ‘Don’t …’
My mother could see through the Mist. I could tell from
her expression that she understood how serious things
were. I hoped she would have the sense to run. But she
locked eyes with me, said something to Paul and they ran
straight towards us.
I couldn’t call out. The last thing I wanted to do was bring
her to Kronos’s attention.
Fortunately, Hades caused a distraction. He charged at
the wall of force, but his chariot crashed against it and
1363
overturned. He got to his feet, cursing, and blasted the wall
with black energy. The barrier held.
‘ATTACK!’ he roared.
The armies of the dead clashed with the Titans’ monsters.
Fifth 
Avenue 
exploded 
into 
absolute 
chaos. 
Mortals
screamed and ran for cover. Demeter waved her hand and
an entire column of giants turned into a wheat ﬁeld.
Persephone 
changed 
the 
dracaenae’s 
spears 
into
sunﬂowers. Nico slashed and hacked his way through the
enemy, trying to protect the pedestrians as best he could.
My parents ran towards me, dodging monsters and zombies,
but there was nothing I could do to help them.
‘Nakamura,’ Kronos said. ‘Attend me. Giants – deal with
them.’
He pointed at my friends and me. Then he ducked into the
lobby.
For a second, I was stunned. I’d been expecting a ﬁght,
but Kronos completely ignored me like I wasn’t worth the
trouble. That made me mad.
The ﬁrst Hyperborean giant smashed at me with his club. I
rolled between his legs and stabbed Riptide into his
backside. He shattered into a pile of ice shards. The second
giant breathed frost at Annabeth, who was barely able to
stand, but Grover pulled her out of the way while Thalia
went to work. She sprinted up the giant’s back like a
gazelle, sliced her hunting knives across his monstrous blue
neck, and created the world’s largest headless ice sculpture.
I glanced outside the magic barrier. Nico was ﬁghting his
way towards my mom and Paul, but they weren’t waiting for
help. Paul grabbed a sword from a fallen hero and did a
pretty ﬁne job keeping a dracaena busy. He stabbed her in
the gut and she disintegrated.
‘Paul?’ I said in amazement.
He turned towards me and grinned. ‘I hope that was a
monster I just killed. I was a Shakespearian actor in college!
Picked up a little swordplay!’
1364
I liked him even better for that, but then a Laistrygonian
giant charged towards my mom. She was rummaging
around in an abandoned police car – maybe looking for the
emergency radio – and her back was turned.
‘Mom!’ I yelled.
She whirled when the monster was almost on top of her. I
thought the thing in her hands was an umbrella until she
cranked the pump and the shotgun blast blew the giant ﬁve
metres backwards, right into Nico’s sword.
‘Nice one,’ Paul said.
‘When did you learn to ﬁre a shotgun?’ I demanded.
My mom blew the hair out of her face. ‘About two seconds
ago. Percy, we’ll be ﬁne. Go!’
‘Yes,’ Nico agreed, ‘we’ll handle the army. You have to get
Kronos!’
‘Come on, Seaweed Brain!’ Annabeth said. I nodded. Then
I looked at the rubble pile on the side of the building. My
heart twisted. I’d forgotten about Chiron. How could I do
that?
‘Mrs O’Leary,’ I said. ‘Please – Chiron’s under there. If
anyone can dig him out, you can. Find him! Help him!’
I’m not sure how much she understood, but she bounded
to the pile and started to dig. Annabeth, Thalia, Grover and I
raced for the elevators.
1365
19    We Trash The Eternal City
 
The bridge to Olympus was dissolving. We stepped out of
the 
elevator 
onto 
the 
white 
marble 
walkway 
and
immediately cracks appeared at our feet.
‘Jump!’ Grover said, which was easy for him since he’s
part mountain goat.
He sprang to the next slab of stone while ours tilted
sickeningly.
‘Gods, I hate heights!’ Thalia yelled as she and I leaped.
But Annabeth was in no shape for jumping. She stumbled
and yelled, ‘Percy!’
I caught her hand as the pavement fell, crumbling into
dust. For a second, I thought she was going to pull us both
over. Her feet dangled in the open air. Her hand started to
slip until I was holding her only by her ﬁngers. Then Grover
and Thalia grabbed my legs and I found extra strength.
Annabeth was not going to fall.
I pulled her up and we lay trembling on the pavement. I
didn’t realize we had our arms around each other until she
suddenly tensed.
‘Um, thanks,’ she muttered.
I tried to say don’t mention it, but it came out as, ‘Uh
duh.’
‘Keep moving!’ Grover tugged my shoulder. We untangled
ourselves and sprinted across the sky bridge as more stones
disintegrated and fell into oblivion. We made it to the edge
of the mountain just as the ﬁnal section collapsed.
Annabeth looked back at the elevator, which was now
completely out of reach – a polished set of metal doors
1366
hanging in space, attached to nothing, six hundred stories
above Manhattan.
‘We’re marooned,’ she said. ‘On our own.’
‘Blah-ha-ha!’ Grover said. ‘The connection between
Olympus and America is dissolving. If it fails –’
‘The gods won’t move on to another country this time,’
Thalia said. ‘This will be the end of Olympus. The ﬁnal end.’
We ran through streets. Mansions were burning. Statues
had been hacked down. Trees in the parks were blasted to
splinters. It looked like someone had attacked the city with a
giant Weedwhacker.
‘Kronos’s scythe,’ I said.
We followed the winding path towards the palace of the
gods. I didn’t remember the road being so long. Maybe
Kronos was making time go slower, or maybe it was just
dread slowing me down. The whole mountaintop was in
ruins – so many beautiful buildings and gardens gone.
A few minor gods and nature spirits had tried to stop
Kronos. What remained of them was strewn about the road –
shattered armour, ripped clothing, swords and spears
broken in half.
Somewhere ahead of us, Kronos’s voice roared: ‘Brick by
brick! That was my promise. Tear it down BRICK BY BRICK!’
A white marble temple with a gold dome suddenly
exploded. The dome shot up like the lid of a teapot and
shattered into a billion pieces, raining rubble over the city.
‘That was a shrine to Artemis,’ Thalia grumbled. ‘He’ll pay
for that.’
We were running under the marble archway with the huge
statues of Zeus and Hera when the entire mountain
groaned, rocking sideways like a boat in a storm.
‘Look out!’ Grover yelped. The archway crumbled. I looked
up in time to see a twenty-ton scowling Hera topple over on
us. Annabeth and I would’ve been ﬂattened, but Thalia
shoved us from behind and we landed just out of danger.
‘Thalia!’ Grover cried.
1367
When the dust cleared and the mountain stopped rocking,
we found her still alive, but her legs were pinned under the
statue.
We tried desperately to move it, but it would’ve taken
several Cyclopes. When we tried to pull Thalia out from
under it, she yelled in pain.
‘I survive all those battles,’ she growled, ‘and I get
defeated by a stupid chunk of rock!’
‘It’s Hera,’ Annabeth said in outrage. ‘She’s had it in for
me all year. Her statue would’ve killed me if you hadn’t
pushed us away.’
Thalia grimaced. ‘Well, don’t just stand there! I’ll be ﬁne.
Go!’
We didn’t want to leave her, but I could hear Kronos
laughing as he approached the hall of the gods. More
buildings exploded.
‘We’ll be back,’ I promised.
‘I’m not going anywhere,’ Thalia groaned.
A ﬁreball erupted on the side of the mountain, right near
the gates of the palace.
‘We’ve got to run,’ I said.
‘I don’t suppose you mean away,’ Grover murmured
hopefully.
I sprinted towards the palace, Annabeth right behind me.
‘I was afraid of that,’ Grover sighed, and clip-clopped after
us.
The doors of the palace were big enough to steer a cruise
ship through, but they’d been ripped oﬀ their hinges and
smashed like they weighed nothing. We had to climb over a
huge pile of broken stone and twisted metal to get inside.
Kronos stood in the middle of the throne room, his arms
wide, staring at the starry ceiling as if taking it all in. His
laughter echoed even louder than it had from the pit of
Tartarus.
1368
‘Finally!’ he bellowed. ‘The Olympian Council – so proud
and mighty. Which seat of power shall I destroy ﬁrst?’
Ethan Nakamura stood to one side, trying to stay out of
the way of his master’s scythe. The hearth was almost
dead, just a few coals glowing deep in the ashes. Hestia was
nowhere to be seen. Neither was Rachel. I hoped she was
okay, but I’d seen so much destruction I was afraid to think
about it. The Ophiotaurus swam in his water sphere in the
far corner of the room, wisely not making a sound, but it
wouldn’t be long before Kronos noticed him.
Annabeth, Grover and I stepped forward into the
torchlight. Ethan saw us ﬁrst.
‘My lord,’ he warned.
Kronos turned and smiled through Luke’s face. Except for
the golden eyes, he looked just the same as he had four
years ago when he’d welcomed me into the Hermes cabin.
Annabeth made a painful sound in the back of her throat,
like someone had just sucker-punched her.
‘Shall I destroy you ﬁrst, Jackson?’ Kronos asked. ‘Is that
the choice you will make – to ﬁght me and die instead of
bowing down? Prophecies never end well, you know.’
‘Luke would ﬁght with a sword,’ I said. ‘But I suppose you
don’t have his skill.’
Kronos sneered. His scythe began to change, until he held
Luke’s old weapon – Backbiter, with its half-steel, half-
celestial bronze blade.
Next to me, Annabeth gasped like she’d suddenly had an
idea. ‘Percy, the blade!’ She unsheathed her knife. ‘The
hero’s soul, cursed blade shall reap.’
I didn’t understand why she was reminding me of that
prophecy line right now. It wasn’t exactly a morale booster,
but before I could say anything Kronos raised his sword.
‘Wait!’ Annabeth yelled.
Kronos came at me like a whirlwind.
My instincts took over. I dodged and slashed and rolled,
but I felt like I was ﬁghting a hundred swordsmen. Ethan
1369
ducked to one side, trying to get behind me until Annabeth
intercepted him. They started to ﬁght, but I couldn’t focus
on how she was doing. I was vaguely aware of Grover
playing his reed pipes. The sound ﬁlled me with warmth and
courage – thoughts of sunlight and a blue sky and a calm
meadow, somewhere far away from the war.
Kronos backed me up against the throne of Hephaestus –
a huge mechanical La-Z-Boy-type thing covered with bronze
and silver gears. Kronos slashed and I managed to jump
straight up onto the seat. The throne whirred and hummed
with secret mechanisms. Defence mode, it warned. Defence
mode.
That couldn’t be good. I jumped straight over Kronos’s
head as the throne shot tendrils of electricity in all
directions. One hit Kronos in the face, arcing down his body
and up his sword.
‘ARG!’ He crumpled to his knees and dropped Backbiter.
Annabeth saw her chance. She kicked Ethan out of the
way and charged Kronos. ‘Luke, listen!’
I wanted to shout at her, to tell her she was crazy for
trying to reason with Kronos, but there was no time. Kronos
ﬂicked his hand. Annabeth ﬂew backwards, slamming into
the throne of her mother and crumpling to the ﬂoor.
‘Annabeth!’ I screamed.
Ethan Nakamura got to his feet. He now stood between
Annabeth and me. I couldn’t ﬁght him without turning my
back on Kronos.
Grover’s music took on a more urgent tune. He moved
towards Annabeth, but he couldn’t go any faster and keep
up the song. Grass grew on the ﬂoor of the throne room.
Tiny roots crept up between the cracks of the marble
stones.
Kronos rose to one knee. His hair smouldered. His face
was covered with electrical burns. He reached for his sword,
but this time it didn’t ﬂy into his hands.
1370
‘Nakamura!’ he groaned. ‘Time to prove yourself. You
know Jackson’s secret weakness. Kill him, and you will have
rewards beyond measure.’
Ethan’s eyes dropped to my midsection, and I was sure
that he knew. Even if he couldn’t kill me himself, all he had
to do was tell Kronos. There was no way I could defend
myself forever.
‘Look around you, Ethan,’ I said. ‘The end of the world. Is
this the reward you want? Do you really want everything
destroyed – the good with the bad? Everything?’
Grover was almost to Annabeth now. The grass thickened
on the ﬂoor. The roots were almost half a metre long, like a
stubble of whiskers.
‘There is no throne to Nemesis,’ Ethan muttered. ‘No
throne to my mother.’
‘That’s right!’ Kronos tried to get up but stumbled. Above
his left ear, a patch of blond hair still smouldered. ‘Strike
them down! They deserve to suﬀer.’
‘You said your mom is the goddess of balance,’ I reminded
him. ‘The minor gods deserve better, Ethan, but total
destruction isn’t balance. Kronos doesn’t build. He only
destroys.’
Ethan looked at the sizzling throne of Hephaestus.
Grover’s music kept playing, and Ethan swayed to it, as if
the song were ﬁlling him with nostalgia – a wish to see a
beautiful day, to be anywhere but here. His good eye
blinked.
Then he charged – but not at me.
While Kronos was still on his knees, Ethan brought down
his sword on the Titan lord’s neck. It should have killed him
instantly, but the blade shattered. Ethan fell back, grasping
his stomach. A shard of his own blade had ricocheted and
pierced his armour.
Kronos rose unsteadily, towering over his servant.
‘Treason,’ he snarled.
1371
Grover’s music kept playing and grass grew around
Ethan’s body. Ethan stared at me, his face tight with pain.
‘Deserve better,’ he gasped. ‘If they just … had thrones –’
Kronos stomped his foot, and the ﬂoor ruptured around
Ethan Nakamura. The son of Nemesis fell through a ﬁssure
that went straight through the heart of the mountain –
straight into open air.
‘So much for him.’ Kronos picked up his sword. ‘And now
for the rest of you.’
My only thought was to keep him away from Annabeth.
Grover was at her side now. He’d stopped playing and was
feeding her ambrosia.
Everywhere Kronos stepped, the roots wrapped around his
feet, but Grover had stopped his magic too early. The roots
weren’t thick or strong enough to do much more than annoy
the Titan.
We fought through the hearth, kicking up coals and
sparks. Kronos slashed an armrest oﬀ the throne of Ares,
which was okay by me, but then he backed me up to my
dad’s throne.
‘Oh, yes,’ Kronos said. ‘This one will make ﬁne kindling for
my new hearth!’
Our blades clashed in a shower of sparks. He was stronger
than me, but for the moment I felt the power of the ocean in
my arms. I pushed him back and struck again – slashing
Riptide across his breastplate so hard I cut a gash in the
celestial bronze.
He stamped his foot again and time slowed. I tried to
attack but I was moving at the speed of a glacier. Kronos
backed up leisurely, catching his breath. He examined the
gash in his armour while I struggled forward, silently cursing
him. He could take all the timeouts he wanted. He could
freeze me in place at will. My only hope was that the eﬀort
was draining him. If I could wear him down …
‘It’s too late, Percy Jackson,’ he said. ‘Behold.’
1372
He pointed to the hearth and the coals glowed. A sheet of
white smoke poured from the ﬁre, forming images like an
Iris-message. I saw Nico and my parents down on Fifth
Avenue, ﬁghting a hopeless battle, ringed in enemies. In the
background 
Hades 
fought 
from 
his 
black 
chariot,
summoning wave after wave of zombies out of the ground,
but the forces of the Titans’ army seemed just as endless.
Meanwhile, Manhattan was being destroyed. Mortals, now
fully awake, were running in terror. Cars swerved and
crashed.
The scene shifted, and I saw something even more
terrifying.
A column of storm was approaching the Hudson River,
moving rapidly over the Jersey shore. Chariots circled it,
locked in combat with the creature in the cloud.
The gods attacked. Lightning ﬂashed. Arrows of gold and
silver streaked into the cloud like rocket tracers and
exploded. Slowly, the cloud ripped apart, and I saw Typhon
clearly for the ﬁrst time.
I knew as long as I lived (which might not be that long) I
would never be able to get the image out of my mind.
Typhon’s head shifted constantly. Every moment he was a
diﬀerent monster, each more horrible than the last. Looking
at his face would’ve driven me insane, so I focused on his
body, which wasn’t much better. He was humanoid, but his
skin reminded me of a meatloaf sandwich that had been in
someone’s locker all year. He was mottled green, with
blisters the size of buildings and blackened patches from
aeons of being stuck under a volcano. His hands were
human, but with talons like an eagle’s. His legs were scaly
and reptilian.
‘The Olympians are giving their ﬁnal eﬀort.’ Kronos
laughed. ‘How pathetic.’
Zeus threw a thunderbolt from his chariot. The blast lit up
the world. I could feel the shock even here on Olympus, but
when the dust cleared, Typhon was still standing. He
1373
staggered a bit, with a smoking crater on top of his
misshapen head, but he roared in anger and kept
advancing.
My limbs began to loosen up. Kronos didn’t seem to
notice. His attention was focused on the ﬁght and his ﬁnal
victory. If I could hold out a few more seconds, and if my dad
kept his word …
Typhon stepped into the Hudson River and barely sank to
mid-calf.
Now, I thought, imploring the image in the smoke. Please,
it has to happen now.
Like a miracle, a conch horn sounded from the smoky
picture. The call of the ocean. The call of Poseidon.
All around Typhon, the Hudson River erupted, churning
with twenty-metre waves. Out of the water burst a new
chariot – this one pulled by massive hippocampi who swam
in air as easily as in water. My father, glowing with a blue
aura of power, rode a deﬁant circle around the giant’s legs.
Poseidon was no longer an old man. He looked like himself
again – tan and strong with a black beard. As he swung his
trident, the river responded, making a funnel cloud around
the monster.
‘No!’ Kronos bellowed, after a moment of stunned silence.
‘NO!’
‘NOW, MY BRETHREN!’ Poseidon’s voice was so loud I
wasn’t sure if I was hearing it from the smoke image or from
all the way across town. ‘STRIKE FOR OLYMPUS!’
Warriors burst out of the river, riding the waves on huge
sharks and dragons and seahorses. It was a legion of
Cyclopes, and leading them into battle was …
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
I knew he couldn’t hear me, but I stared at him in
amazement. He’d magically grown in size. He had to be ten
metres tall, as big as any of his older cousins, and for the
ﬁrst time he was wearing full battle armour. Riding behind
him was Briares, the Hundred-handed One.
1374
All the Cyclopes held huge lengths of black iron chains –
big enough to anchor a battleship – with grappling hooks at
the ends. They swung them like lassos and began to
ensnare Typhon, throwing lines around the creature’s legs
and arms, using the tide to keep circling, slowly tangling
him. Typhon shook and roared and yanked at the chains,
pulling some of the Cyclopes oﬀ their mounts, but there
were too many chains. The sheer weight of the Cyclops
battalion began to weigh Typhon down. Poseidon threw his
trident and impaled the monster in the throat. Golden blood,
immortal ichor, spewed from the wound, making a waterfall
taller than a skyscraper. The trident ﬂew back to Poseidon’s
hand.
The other gods struck with renewed force. Ares rode in
and stabbed Typhon in the nose. Artemis shot the monster
in the eye with a dozen silver arrows. Apollo shot a blazing
volley of arrows and set the monster’s loincloth on ﬁre. And
Zeus kept pounding the giant with lightning, until ﬁnally,
slowly, the water rose, wrapping Typhon like a cocoon, and
he began to sink under the weight of the chains. Typhon
bellowed in agony, thrashing with such force that waves
sloshed the Jersey shore, soaking ﬁve-storey buildings and
splashing over the George Washington Bridge – but down he
went as my dad opened a special tunnel for him at the
bottom of the river – an endless water slide that would take
him straight to Tartarus. The giant’s head went under in a
seething whirlpool, and he was gone.
‘BAH!’ Kronos screamed. He slashed his sword through the
smoke, tearing the image to shreds.
‘They’re on their way,’ I said. ‘You’ve lost.’
‘I haven’t even started.’
He advanced with blinding speed. Grover – brave stupid
satyr that he was – tried to protect me, but Kronos tossed
him aside like a rag doll.
I sidestepped and jabbed under Kronos’s guard. It was a
good trick. Unfortunately, Luke knew it. He countered the
1375
strike and disarmed me using one of the ﬁrst moves he’d
ever taught me. My sword skittered across the ground and
fell straight into the open ﬁssure.
‘STOP!’ Annabeth came from nowhere.
Kronos whirled to face her and slashed with Backbiter, but
somehow Annabeth caught the strike on her dagger hilt. It
was a move only the quickest and most skilled knife ﬁghter
could’ve managed. Don’t ask me where she found the
strength, but she stepped in closer for leverage, their blades
crossed, and for a moment she stood face to face with the
Titan lord, holding him at a standstill.
‘Luke,’ she said, gritting her teeth, ‘I understand now. You
have to trust me.’
Kronos roared in outrage. ‘Luke Castellan is dead! His
body will burn away as I assume my true form!’
I tried to move but my body was frozen again. How could
Annabeth, battered and half dead with exhaustion, have the
strength to ﬁght a Titan like Kronos?
Kronos pushed against her, trying to dislodge his blade,
but she held him in check, her arms trembling as he forced
his sword down towards her neck.
‘Your mother,’ Annabeth grunted. ‘She saw your fate.’
‘Service to Kronos!’ the Titan roared. ‘This is my fate.’
‘No!’ Annabeth insisted. Her eyes were tearing up, but I
didn’t know if it was from sadness or pain. ‘That’s not the
end, Luke. The prophecy – she saw what you would do. It
applies to you!’
‘I will crush you, child!’ Kronos bellowed.
‘You won’t,’ Annabeth said. ‘You promised. You’re holding
Kronos back even now.’
‘LIES!’ Kronos pushed again and this time Annabeth lost
her balance. With his free hand, Kronos struck her face and
she slid backwards.
I summoned all my will. I managed to rise, but it was like
holding the weight of the sky again.
Kronos loomed over Annabeth, his sword raised.
1376
Blood trickled from the corner of her mouth. She croaked,
‘Family, Luke. You promised.’
I took a painful step forward. Grover was back on his feet,
over by the throne of Hera, but he seemed to be struggling
to move as well. Before either of us could get anywhere
close to Annabeth, Kronos staggered.
He stared at the knife in Annabeth’s hand, the blood on
her face. ‘Promise.’
Then he gasped like he couldn’t get air. ‘Annabeth …’ But
it wasn’t the Titan’s voice. It was Luke’s. He stumbled
forward like he couldn’t control his own body. ‘You’re
bleeding …’
‘My knife.’ Annabeth tried to raise her dagger, but it
clattered out of her hand. Her arm was bent at a funny
angle. She looked at me, imploring, ‘Percy, please …’
I could move again.
I surged forward and scooped up her knife. I knocked
Backbiter out of Luke’s hand and it spun into the hearth.
Luke hardly paid me any attention. He stepped towards
Annabeth, but I put myself between him and her.
‘Don’t touch her,’ I said.
Anger rippled across his face. Kronos’s voice growled:
‘Jackson …’ Was it my imagination, or was his whole body
glowing, turning gold?
He gasped again. Luke’s voice: ‘He’s changing. Help. He’s
– he’s almost ready. He won’t need my body any more.
Please –’
‘NO!’ Kronos bellowed. He looked around for his sword,
but it was in the hearth, glowing among the coals.
He stumbled towards it. I tried to stop him, but he pushed
me out of the way with such force I landed next to Annabeth
and cracked my head on the base of Athena’s throne.
‘The knife, Percy,’ Annabeth muttered. Her breath was
shallow. ‘Hero … cursed blade …’
When my vision came back into focus, I saw Kronos
grasping his sword. Then he bellowed in pain and dropped
1377
it. His hands were smoking and seared. The hearth ﬁre had
grown red hot, like the scythe wasn’t compatible with it. I
saw an image of Hestia ﬂickering in the ashes, frowning at
Kronos with disapproval.
Luke turned and collapsed, clutching his ruined hands.
‘Please, Percy …’
I struggled to my feet. I moved towards him with the
knife. I should kill him. That was the plan.
Luke seemed to know what I was thinking. He moistened
his lips. ‘You can’t  … can’t do it yourself. He’ll break my
control. He’ll defend himself. Only my hand. I know where. I
can … can keep him controlled.’
He was deﬁnitely glowing now, his skin starting to smoke.
I raised the knife to strike. Then I looked at Annabeth, at
Grover cradling her in his arms, trying to shield her. And I
ﬁnally understood what she’d been trying to tell me.
You are not the hero, Rachel had said. It will aﬀect what
you do.
‘Please,’ Luke groaned. ‘No time.’
If Kronos evolved into his true form, there would be no
stopping him. He would make Typhon look like a playground
bully.
The line from the Great Prophecy echoed in my head: A
hero’s soul, cursed blade shall reap. My whole world tipped
upside down, and I gave the knife to Luke.
Grover yelped. ‘Percy? Are you … um …’
Crazy. Insane. Oﬀ my rocker. Probably.
But I watched as Luke grasped the hilt.
I stood before him – defenceless.
He unlatched the side straps of his armour, exposing a
small bit of his skin just under his left arm, a place that
would be very hard to hit. With diﬃculty, he stabbed
himself.
It wasn’t a deep cut, but Luke howled. His eyes glowed
like lava. The throne room shook, throwing me oﬀ my feet.
An aura of energy surrounded Luke, growing brighter and
1378
brighter. I shut my eyes and felt a force like a nuclear
explosion blister my skin and crack my lips.
It was silent for a long time.
When I opened my eyes, I saw Luke sprawled at the
hearth. On the ﬂoor around him was a blackened circle of
ash. Kronos’s scythe had liqueﬁed into molten metal and
was trickling into the coals of the hearth, which now glowed
like a blacksmith’s furnace.
Luke’s left side was bloody. His eyes were open – blue
eyes, the way they used to be. His breath was a deep rattle.
‘Good … blade,’ he croaked.
I knelt next to him. Annabeth limped over with Grover’s
support. They both had tears in their eyes.
Luke gazed at Annabeth. ‘You knew. I almost killed you,
but you knew …’
‘Shhh.’ Her voice trembled. ‘You were a hero at the end,
Luke. You’ll go to Elysium.’
He shook his head weakly. ‘Think … rebirth. Try for three
times. Isles of the Blest.’
Annabeth sniﬄed. ‘You always pushed yourself too hard.’
He held up his charred hand. Annabeth touched his
ﬁngertips.
‘Did you …’ Luke coughed and his lips glistened red. ‘Did
you love me?’
Annabeth wiped her tears away. ‘There was a time I
thought … well, I thought …’ She looked at me, like she was
drinking in the fact that I was still here. And I realized I was
doing the same thing. The world was collapsing, and the
only thing that really mattered to me was that she was
alive.
‘You were like a brother to me, Luke,’ she said softly. ‘But I
didn’t love you.’
He nodded, as if he’d expected it. He winced in pain.
‘We can get ambrosia,’ Grover said. ‘We can –’
‘Grover,’ Luke gulped. ‘You’re the bravest satyr I ever
knew. But, no. There’s no healing …’ Another cough.
1379
He gripped my sleeve, and I could feel the heat of his skin
like a ﬁre. ‘Ethan. Me. All the unclaimed. Don’t let it … Don’t
let it happen again.’
His eyes were angry, but pleading, too.
‘I won’t,’ I said. ‘I promise.’
Luke nodded, and his hand went slack.
The gods arrived a few minutes later in their full war
regalia, thundering into the throne room and expecting a
battle.
What they found were Annabeth, Grover and me standing
over the body of a broken half-blood, in the dim warm light
of the hearth.
‘Percy,’ my father called, awe in his voice. ‘What … what
is this?’
I turned and faced the Olympians.
‘We need a shroud,’ I announced, my voice cracking. ‘A
shroud for the son of Hermes.’
1380
20    We Win Fabulous Prizes
 
The Three Fates themselves took Luke’s body.
I hadn’t seen the old ladies in years, since I’d witnessed
them snip a life thread at a roadside fruit stand when I was
twelve. They’d scared me then, and they scared me now –
three ghoulish grandmothers with bags of knitting needles
and yarn.
One of them looked at me and, even though she didn’t
say anything, my life literally ﬂashed before my eyes.
Suddenly I was twenty. Then I was a middle-aged man. Then
I turned old and withered. All the strength left my body, and
I saw my own tombstone and an open grave, a coﬃn being
lowered into the ground. All this happened in less than a
second.
It is done, she said.
The Fate held up the snippet of blue yarn – and I knew it
was the same one I’d seen four years ago, the lifeline I’d
watched them snip. I had thought it was my life. Now I
realized it was Luke’s. They’d been showing me the life that
would have to be sacriﬁced to set things right.
They gathered up Luke’s body, now wrapped in a white-
and-green shroud, and began carrying it out of the throne
room.
‘Wait,’ Hermes said.
The messenger god was dressed in his classic outﬁt of
white Greek robes, sandals and helmet. The wings of his
helm ﬂuttered as he walked. The snakes George and Martha
curled around his caduceus, murmuring, Luke, poor Luke.
1381
I thought about May Castellan, alone in her kitchen,
baking cookies and making sandwiches for a son who would
never come home.
Hermes unwrapped Luke’s face and kissed his forehead.
He murmured some words in Ancient Greek – a ﬁnal
blessing.
‘Farewell,’ he whispered. Then he nodded, and allowed the
Fates to carry away his son’s body.
As they left, I thought about the Great Prophecy. The lines
now made sense to me. The hero’s soul, cursed blade shall
reap. The hero was Luke. The cursed blade was the knife
he’d given Annabeth long ago – cursed because Luke had
broken his promise and betrayed his friends. A single choice
shall end his days. My choice – to give him the knife, and to
believe as Annabeth had, that he was still capable of setting
things right. Olympus to preserve or raze. By sacriﬁcing
himself, he had saved Olympus. Rachel was right. In the
end, I wasn’t really the hero. Luke was.
And I understood something else: when Luke had
descended into the River Styx, he would’ve had to focus on
something important that would hold him to his mortal life.
Otherwise he would’ve dissolved. I had seen Annabeth, and
I had a feeling he had, too. He had pictured that scene
Hestia showed me – of himself in the good old days with
Thalia and Annabeth, when he promised that they would be
a family. Hurting Annabeth in battle had shocked him into
remembering that promise. It had allowed his mortal
conscience to take over again, and defeat Kronos. His weak
spot – his Achilles heel – had saved us all.
Next to me, Annabeth’s knees buckled. I caught her but
she cried out in pain, and I realized I’d grabbed her broken
arm.
‘Oh, gods,’ I said. ‘Annabeth, I’m sorry.’
‘It’s all right,’ she said, as she passed out in my arms.
‘She needs help!’ I yelled.
1382
‘I’ve got this.’ Apollo stepped forward. His ﬁery armour
was so bright it was hard to look at, and his matching Ray-
Bans and perfect smile made him look like a male model for
battle gear. ‘God of medicine, at your service.’
He passed his hand over Annabeth’s face and spoke an
incantation. Immediately the bruises faded. Her cuts and
scars disappeared. Her arm straightened, and she sighed in
her sleep.
Apollo grinned. ‘She’ll be ﬁne in a few minutes. Just
enough time for me to compose a poem about our victory:
“Apollo and his friends save Olympus.” Good, eh?’
‘Thanks, Apollo,’ I said. ‘I’ll, um, let you handle the poetry.’
The next few hours were a blur. I remembered my promise
to my mother. Zeus didn’t even blink an eye when I told him
my strange request. He snapped his ﬁngers and informed
me that the top of the Empire State Building was now lit up
blue. Most mortals would just have to wonder what it meant,
but my mom would know: I had survived. Olympus was
saved.
The gods set about repairing the throne room, which went
surprisingly fast with twelve super-powerful beings at work.
Grover and I cared for the wounded, and once the sky
bridge re-formed we greeted our friends who had survived.
The Cyclopes had saved Thalia from the fallen statue. She
was on crutches, but otherwise she was okay. Connor and
Travis Stoll had made it through with only minor injuries.
They promised me they hadn’t even looted the city much.
They told me my parents were ﬁne, though they weren’t
allowed into Mount Olympus. Mrs O’Leary had dug Chiron
out of the rubble and rushed him oﬀ to camp. The Stolls
looked kind of worried about the old centaur, but at least he
was alive. Katie Gardner reported that she’d seen Rachel
Elizabeth Dare run out of the Empire State Building at the
end of the battle. Rachel had looked unharmed, but nobody
knew where she’d gone, which also troubled me.
1383
Nico di Angelo came into Olympus to a hero’s welcome,
his father right behind him, despite the fact that Hades was
only supposed to visit Olympus on winter solstice. The god
of the dead looked stunned when his relatives clapped him
on the back. I doubt he’d ever got such an enthusiastic
welcome before.
Clarisse marched in, still shivering from her time in the ice
block, and Ares bellowed, ‘There’s my girl!’
The god of war ruﬄed her hair and pounded her on the
back, calling her the best warrior he’d ever seen. ‘That
drakon-slaying? THAT’S what I’m talking about!’
She looked pretty overwhelmed. All she could do was nod
and blink, like she was afraid he’d start hitting her, but
eventually she began to smile.
Hera and Hephaestus passed me, and while Hephaestus
was a little grumpy about me jumping on his throne, he
thought I’d done ‘a pretty bang-up job, mostly’.
Hera sniﬀed in disdain. ‘I suppose I won’t destroy you and
that little girl now.’
‘Annabeth saved Olympus,’ I told her. ‘She convinced Luke
to stop Kronos.’
‘Hmm.’ Hera whirled away in a huﬀ, but I ﬁgured our lives
would be safe, at least for a little while.
Dionysus’ head was still wrapped in a bandage. He looked
me up and down and said, ‘Well, Percy Jackson. I see Pollux
made it through, so I suppose you aren’t completely inept.
It’s all thanks to my training, I suppose.’
‘Um, yes, sir,’ I said.
Mr D nodded. ‘As thanks for my bravery, Zeus has cut my
probation at that miserable camp in half. I now have only
ﬁfty years left instead of one hundred.’
‘Fifty years, huh?’ I tried to imagine putting up with
Dionysus until I was an old man, assuming I lived that long.
‘Don’t get so excited, Jackson,’ he said, and I realized he
was saying my name correctly. ‘I still plan on making your
life miserable.’
1384
I couldn’t help smiling. ‘Naturally.’
‘Just so we understand each other.’ He turned and began
repairing his grapevine throne, which had been singed by
ﬁre.
Grover stayed at my side. From time to time he would
break down in tears. ‘So many nature spirits dead, Percy. So
many.’
I put my arm around his shoulders and gave him a rag to
blow his nose. ‘You did a great job, G-man. We will come
back from this. We’ll plant new trees. We’ll clean up the
parks. Your friends will be reincarnated into a better world.’
He sniﬄed dejectedly. ‘I – I suppose. But it was hard
enough to rally them before. I’m still an outcast. I could
barely get anyone to listen to me about Pan. Now will they
ever listen to me again? I led them into a slaughter.’
‘They will listen,’ I promised. ‘Because you care about
them. You care about the wild more than anyone.’
He tried for a smile. ‘Thanks, Percy. I hope … I hope you
know I’m really proud to be your friend.’
I patted his arm. ‘Luke was right about one thing, G-man.
You’re the bravest satyr I ever met.’
He blushed, but before he could say anything, conch
horns blew. The army of Poseidon marched into the throne
room.
‘Percy!’ Tyson yelled. He charged towards me with his
arms open. Fortunately, he’d shrunk back to normal size, so
his hug was like getting hit by a tractor, not the entire farm.
‘You are not dead!’ he said.
‘Yeah!’ I agreed. ‘Amazing, huh?’
He clapped his hands and laughed happily. ‘I am not dead,
either. Yay! We chained Typhon. It was fun!’
Behind him, ﬁfty other armoured Cyclopes laughed and
nodded and gave each other high-ﬁves.
‘Tyson led us,’ one rumbled. ‘He is brave!’
‘Bravest of the Cyclopes!’ another bellowed.
Tyson blushed. ‘Was nothing.’
1385
‘I saw you!’ I said. ‘You were incredible!’
I thought poor Grover would pass out. He’s deathly afraid
of Cyclopes. But he steeled his nerves and said, ‘Yes. Um …
three cheers for Tyson!’
‘YAAARRRRR!’ the Cyclopes roared.
‘Please don’t eat me,’ Grover muttered, but I don’t think
anyone heard him but me.
The conch horns blasted again. The Cyclopes parted, and
my father strode into the throne room in his battle armour,
his trident glowing in his hands.
‘Tyson!’ he roared. ‘Well done, my son. And, Percy –’ His
face turned stern. He wagged his ﬁnger at me, and for a
second I was afraid he was going to zap me. ‘I even forgive
you for sitting on my throne. You have saved Olympus!’
He held out his arms and gave me a hug. I realized, a little
embarrassed, that I’d never actually hugged my dad before.
He was warm – like a regular human, and he smelled of a
salty beach and fresh sea air.
When he pulled away, he smiled kindly at me. I felt so
good I’ll admit I teared up a little. I guess until that moment
I hadn’t allowed myself to realize just how terriﬁed I had
been the last few days.
‘Dad –’
‘Shhh,’ he said. ‘No hero is above fear, Percy. And you
have risen above every hero. Not even Hercules –’
‘POSEIDON!’ a voice roared.
Zeus had taken his throne. He glared across the room at
my dad while all the other gods ﬁled in and took their seats.
Even Hades was present, sitting on a simple stone guest
chair at the foot of the hearth. Nico sat cross-legged on the
ground at his dad’s feet.
‘Well, Poseidon?’ Zeus grumped. ‘Are you too proud to join
us in council, my brother?’
I thought Poseidon was going to get mad, but he just
looked at me and winked. ‘I would be honoured, Lord Zeus.’
1386
I guess miracles do happen. Poseidon strode over to his
ﬁshing seat and the Olympian Council convened.
While Zeus was talking – some long speech about the
bravery of the gods, blah, blah, blah – Annabeth walked in
and stood next to me. She looked good for someone who’d
recently passed out.
‘Miss much?’ she whispered.
‘Nobody’s planning to kill us, so far,’ I whispered back.
‘First time today.’
I cracked up, but Grover nudged me, because Hera was
giving us a dirty look.
‘As for my brothers,’ Zeus said, ‘we are thankful –’ he
cleared his throat, like the words were hard to get out –
‘erm, thankful for the aid of Hades.’
The Lord of the Dead nodded. He had a smug look on his
face, but I ﬁgure he’d earned the right. He patted his son
Nico on the shoulders, and Nico looked happier than I’d ever
seen him.
‘And, of course,’ Zeus continued, though he looked like his
pants were smouldering, ‘we must … um … thank Poseidon.’
‘I’m sorry, brother,’ Poseidon said. ‘What was that?’
‘We must thank Poseidon,’ Zeus growled. ‘Without
whom … it would’ve been diﬃcult –’
‘Diﬃcult?’ Poseidon asked innocently.
‘Impossible,’ Zeus said. ‘Impossible to defeat Typhon.’
The gods murmured agreement and pounded their
weapons in approval.
‘Which leaves us,’ Zeus said, ‘only the matter of thanking
our young demigod heroes, who defended Olympus so well
– even if there were a few dents in my throne.’
He called Thalia forward ﬁrst, since she was his daughter,
and promised her help in ﬁlling the Hunters’ ranks.
Artemis smiled. ‘You have done well, my lieutenant. You
have made me proud, and all those Hunters who perished in
1387
my service will never be forgotten. They will achieve
Elysium, I am sure.’
She glared pointedly at Hades.
He shrugged. ‘Probably.’
Artemis glared at him some more.
‘Okay,’ Hades grumbled. ‘I’ll streamline their application
process.’
Thalia beamed with pride. ‘Thank you, my lady.’ She
bowed to the gods, even Hades, and then limped over to
stand by Artemis’s side.
‘Tyson, son of Poseidon!’ Zeus called. Tyson looked
nervous, but he went to stand in the middle of the council,
and Zeus grunted.
‘Doesn’t miss many meals, does he?’ Zeus muttered.
‘Tyson, for your bravery in the war, and for leading the
Cyclopes, you are appointed a general in the armies of
Olympus. You shall henceforth lead your brethren into war
whenever required by the gods. And you shall have a new …
um  … what kind of weapon would you like? A sword? An
axe?’
‘Stick!’ Tyson said, showing his broken club.
‘Very well,’ Zeus said. ‘We will grant you a new, er, stick.
The best stick that may be found.’
‘Hooray!’ Tyson cried, and all the Cyclopes cheered and
pounded him on the back as he rejoined them.
‘Grover Underwood of the satyrs!’ Dionysus called.
Grover came forward nervously.
‘Oh, stop chewing your shirt,’ Dionysus chided. ‘Honestly,
I’m not going to blast you. For your bravery and sacriﬁce,
blah, blah, blah, and since we have an unfortunate vacancy,
the gods have seen ﬁt to name you a member of the Council
of Cloven Elders.’
Grover collapsed on the spot.
‘Oh, wonderful,’ Dionysus sighed, as several naiads came
forward to help Grover. ‘Well, when he wakes up, someone
tell him that he will no longer be an outcast, and that all
1388
satyrs, naiads and other spirits of nature will henceforth
treat him as a Lord of the Wild, with all rights, privileges,
and honours, blah, blah, blah. Now, please, drag him oﬀ
before he wakes up and starts grovelling.’
‘FOOOOOD,’ Grover moaned, as the nature spirits carried
him away.
I ﬁgured he’d be okay. He would wake up a Lord of the
Wild with a bunch of beautiful naiads taking care of him. Life
could be worse.
Athena called, ‘Annabeth Chase, my own daughter.’
Annabeth squeezed my arm, then walked forward and
knelt at her mother’s feet.
Athena smiled. ‘You, my daughter, have exceeded all
expectations. You have used your wits, your strength and
your courage to defend this city, and our seat of power. It
has come to our attention that Olympus is … well, trashed.
The Titan lord did much damage that will have to be
repaired. We could rebuild it by magic, of course, and make
it just as it was. But the gods feel that the city could be
improved. We will take this as an opportunity. And you, my
daughter, will design these improvements.’
Annabeth looked up, stunned. ‘My – my lady?’
Athena smiled wryly. ‘You are an architect, are you not?
You have studied the techniques of Daedalus himself. Who
better to redesign Olympus, and make it a monument that
will last for another aeon?’
‘You mean … I can design whatever I want?’
‘As your heart desires,’ the goddess said. ‘Make us a city
for the ages.’
‘As long as you have plenty of statues of me,’ Apollo
added.
‘And me,’ Aphrodite agreed.
‘Hey, and me!’ Ares said. ‘Big statues with huge wicked
swords and –’
‘All right!’ Athena interrupted. ‘She gets the point. Rise,
my daughter – oﬃcial architect of Olympus.’
1389
Annabeth rose in a trance and walked back towards me.
‘Way to go,’ I told her, grinning.
For once, she was at a loss for words. ‘I’ll – I’ll have to
start planning … Drafting paper, and, um, pencils –’
‘PERCY JACKSON!’ Poseidon announced. My name echoed
around the chamber.
All talking died down. The room was silent except for the
crackle of the hearth ﬁre. Everyone’s eyes were on me – all
the gods, the demigods, the Cyclopes, the spirits. I walked
into the middle of the throne room. Hestia smiled at me
reassuringly. She was in the form of a girl now, and she
seemed happy and content to be sitting by her ﬁre again.
Her smile gave me courage to keep walking.
First I bowed to Zeus. Then I knelt at my father’s feet.
‘Rise, my son,’ Poseidon said.
I stood uneasily.
‘A great hero must be rewarded,’ Poseidon said. ‘Is there
anyone here who would deny that my son is deserving?’
I waited for someone to pipe up. The gods never agreed
on anything, and many of them still didn’t like me, but not a
single one protested.
‘The council agrees,’ Zeus said. ‘Percy Jackson, you will
have one gift from the gods.’
I hesitated. ‘Any gift?’
Zeus nodded grimly. ‘I know what you will ask. The
greatest gift of all. Yes, if you want it, it shall be yours. The
gods have not bestowed this gift on a mortal hero in many
centuries, but Perseus Jackson – if you wish it, you shall be
made a god. Immortal. Undying. You shall serve as your
father’s lieutenant for all time.’
I stared at him, stunned. ‘Um … a god?’
Zeus rolled his eyes. ‘A dim-witted god, apparently. But
yes. With the consensus of the entire council, I can make
you immortal. Then I will have to put up with you forever.’
‘Hmm,’ Ares mused. ‘That means I can smash him to a
pulp as often as I want, and he’ll just keep coming back for
1390
more. I like this idea.’
‘I approve as well,’ Athena said, though she was looking at
Annabeth.
I glanced back. Annabeth was trying not to meet my eyes.
Her face was pale. I ﬂashed back to two years ago, when I’d
thought she was going to take the pledge to Artemis and
become a Hunter. I’d been on the edge of a panic attack,
thinking that I’d lose her. Now she looked pretty much the
same way.
I thought about the Three Fates, and the way I’d seen my
life ﬂash by. I could avoid all that. No aging, no death, no
body in the grave. I could be a teenager forever, in top
condition, powerful and immortal, serving my father. I could
have power and eternal life.
Who could refuse that?
Then I looked at Annabeth again. I thought about my
friends from camp – Charles Beckendorf, Michael Yew, Silena
Beauregard, so many others who were now dead. I thought
about Ethan Nakamura and Luke.
And I knew what to do.
‘No,’ I said.
The council was silent. The gods frowned at each other
like they must have misheard.
‘No?’ Zeus said. ‘You are  … turning down our generous
gift?’
There was a dangerous edge to his voice, like a
thunderstorm about to erupt.
‘I’m honoured and everything,’ I said. ‘Don’t get me
wrong. It’s just … I’ve got a lot of life left to live. I’d hate to
peak in my sophomore year.’
The gods were glaring at me, but Annabeth had her hands
over her mouth. Her eyes were shining. And that kind of
made up for it.
‘I do want a gift, though,’ I said. ‘Do you promise to grant
my wish?’
Zeus thought about this. ‘If it is within our power.’
1391
‘It is,’ I said. ‘And it’s not even diﬃcult. But I need your
promise on the River Styx.’
‘What?’ Dionysus cried. ‘You don’t trust us?’
‘Someone once told me,’ I said, looking at Hades, ‘you
should always get a solemn oath.’
Hades shrugged. ‘Guilty.’
‘Very well!’ Zeus growled. ‘In the name of the council, we
swear by the River Styx to grant your reasonable request as
long as it is within our power.’
The other gods muttered assent. Thunder boomed,
shaking the throne room. The deal was made.
‘From now on, I want you to properly recognize the
children of the gods,’ I said. ‘All the children  … of all the
gods.’
The Olympians shifted uncomfortably.
‘Percy,’ my father said, ‘what exactly do you mean?’
‘Kronos couldn’t have risen if it hadn’t been for a lot of
demigods who felt abandoned by their parents,’ I said. ‘They
felt angry, resentful and unloved, and they had a good
reason.’
Zeus’s royal nostrils ﬂared. ‘You dare accuse –’
‘No more undetermined children,’ I said. ‘I want you to
promise to claim your children – all your demigod children –
by the time they turn thirteen. They won’t be left out in the
world on their own at the mercy of monsters. I want them
claimed and brought to camp so they can be trained right,
and survive.’
‘Now wait just a moment,’ Apollo said, but I was on a roll.
‘And the minor gods,’ I said. ‘Nemesis, Hecate, Morpheus,
Janus, Hebe – they all deserve a general amnesty and a
place at Camp Half-Blood. Their children shouldn’t be
ignored. Calypso and the other peaceful Titan-kind should
be pardoned, too. And Hades –’
‘Are you calling me a minor god?’ Hades bellowed.
‘No, my lord,’ I said quickly. ‘But your children should not
be left out. They should have a cabin at camp. Nico has
1392
proven that. No unclaimed demigods will be crammed into
the Hermes cabin any more, wondering who their parents
are. They’ll have their own cabins, for all the gods. And no
more pact of the Big Three. That didn’t work anyway. You’ve
got to stop trying to get rid of powerful demigods. We’re
going to train them and accept them instead. All children of
the gods will be welcome and treated with respect. That is
my wish.’
Zeus snorted. ‘Is that all?’
‘Percy,’ Poseidon said, ‘you ask much. You presume
much.’
‘I hold you to your oath,’ I said. ‘All of you.’
I got a lot of steely looks. Strangely, it was Athena who
spoke up: ‘The boy is correct. We have been unwise to
ignore our children. It proved a strategic weakness in this
war and almost caused our destruction. Percy Jackson – I
have had my doubts about you, but perhaps –’ she glanced
at Annabeth, and then spoke as if the words had a sour
taste – ‘perhaps I was mistaken. I move that we accept the
boy’s plan.’
‘Humph,’ Zeus said. ‘Being told what to do by a mere
child. But I suppose …’
‘All in favour,’ Hermes said.
All the gods raised their hands.
‘Um, thanks,’ I said.
I turned, but before I could leave, Poseidon called, ‘Honour
guard!’
Immediately the Cyclopes came forward and made two
lines from the thrones to the door – an aisle for me to walk
through. They came to attention.
‘All hail, Perseus Jackson,’ Tyson said. ‘Hero of Olympus …
and my big brother!’
1393
21    Blackjack Gets Jacked
 
Annabeth and I were on our way out when I spotted Hermes
in a side courtyard of the palace. He was staring at an Iris-
message in the mist of a fountain.
I glanced at Annabeth. ‘I’ll meet you at the elevator.’
‘You sure?’ Then she studied my face. ‘Yeah, you’re sure.’
Hermes didn’t seem to notice me approach. The Iris-
message images were going so fast I could hardly
understand them. Mortal newscasts from all over the
country ﬂashed by – scenes of Typhon’s destruction, the
wreckage our battle had left across Manhattan, the
president doing a news conference, the mayor of New York,
some army vehicles riding down the Avenue of the
Americas.
‘Amazing,’ Hermes murmured. He turned towards me.
‘Three thousand years, and I will never get over the power
of the Mist … and mortal ignorance.’
‘Thanks, I guess.’
‘Oh, not you. Although I suppose I should wonder, turning
down immortality.’
‘It was the right choice.’
Hermes looked at me curiously then returned his attention
to the Iris-message. ‘Look at them. They’ve already decided
Typhon was a freak series of storms. Don’t I wish. They
haven’t ﬁgured out how all the statues in Lower Manhattan
got removed from their pedestals and hacked to pieces.
They keep showing a shot of Susan B. Anthony strangling
Frederick Douglass. But I imagine they’ll even come up with
a logical explanation for that.’
1394
‘How bad is the city?’
Hermes shrugged. ‘Surprisingly, not too bad. The mortals
are shaken, of course. But this is New York. I’ve never seen
such a resilient bunch of humans. I imagine they’ll be back
to normal in a few weeks and, of course, I’ll be helping.’
‘You?’
‘I’m the messenger of the gods. It’s my job to monitor
what the mortals are saying and, if necessary, help them
make sense of what’s happened. I’ll reassure them. Trust
me, they’ll put this down to a freak earthquake, or a solar
ﬂare. Anything but the truth.’
He sounded bitter. George and Martha curled around his
caduceus, but they were silent, which made me think that
Hermes was really, really angry. I probably should’ve kept
quiet, but I said, ‘I owe you an apology.’
Hermes gave me a cautious look. ‘And why is that?’
‘I thought you were a bad father,’ I admitted. ‘I thought
you abandoned Luke because you knew his future and
didn’t do anything to stop it.’
‘I did know his future,’ Hermes said miserably.
‘But you knew more than just the bad stuﬀ – that he’d
turn evil. You understood what he would do in the end. You
knew he’d make the right choice. But you couldn’t tell him,
could you?’
Hermes stared at the fountain. ‘No one can tamper with
fate, Percy, not even a god. If I had warned him what was to
come, or tried to inﬂuence his choices, I would’ve made
things even worse. Staying silent, staying away from him …
That was the hardest thing I’ve ever done.’
‘You had to let him ﬁnd his own path,’ I said, ‘and play his
part in saving Olympus.’
Hermes sighed. ‘I should not have got mad at Annabeth.
When Luke visited her in San Francisco … Well, I knew she
would have a part to play in his fate. I foresaw that much. I
thought perhaps she could do what I could not and save
him. When she refused to go with him, I could barely contain
1395
my rage. I should have known better. I was really angry with
myself.’
‘Annabeth did save him,’ I said. ‘Luke died a hero. He
sacriﬁced himself to kill Kronos.’
‘I appreciate your words, Percy. But Kronos isn’t dead. You
can’t kill a Titan.’
‘Then –’
‘I don’t know,’ Hermes grumbled. ‘None of us do. Blown to
dust. Scattered to the wind. With luck, he’s spread so thin
that he’ll never be able to form a consciousness again,
much less a body. But don’t mistake him for dead, Percy.’
My stomach did a queasy somersault. ‘What about the
other Titans?’
‘In hiding,’ Hermes said. ‘Prometheus sent Zeus a
message with a bunch of excuses for supporting Kronos. “I
was just trying to minimize the damage,” blah, blah. He’ll
keep his head low for a few centuries if he’s smart. Krios has
ﬂed, and Mount Othrys has crumbled into ruins. Oceanus
slipped back into the deep ocean when it was clear Kronos
had lost. Meanwhile, my son Luke is dead. He died believing
I didn’t care about him. I will never forgive myself.’
Hermes slashed his caduceus through the mist. The Iris-
picture disappeared.
‘A long time ago,’ I said, ‘you told me the hardest thing
about being a god was not being able to help your children.
You also told me that you couldn’t give up on your family, no
matter how tempting they made it.’
‘And now you know I’m a hypocrite?’
‘No, you were right. Luke loved you. At the end, he
realized his fate. I think he realized why you couldn’t help
him. He remembered what was important.’
‘Too late for him and me.’
‘You have other children. Honour Luke by recognizing
them. All the gods can do that.’
Hermes’ shoulders sagged. ‘They’ll try, Percy. Oh, we’ll all
try to keep our promise. And maybe for a while things will
1396
get better. But we gods have never been good at keeping
oaths. You were born because of a broken promise, eh?
Eventually we’ll become forgetful. We always do.’
‘You can change.’
Hermes laughed. ‘After three thousand years, you think
the gods can change their nature?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘I do.’
Hermes seemed surprised by that. ‘You think  … Luke
actually loved me? After all that happened?’
‘I’m sure of it.’
Hermes stared at the fountain. ‘I’ll give you a list of my
children. There’s a boy in Wisconsin. Two girls in Los
Angeles. A few others. Will you see that they get to camp?’
‘I promise,’ I said. ‘And I won’t forget.’
George and Martha twirled around the caduceus. I know
snakes can’t smile, but they seemed to be trying.
‘Percy Jackson,’ Hermes said, ‘you might just teach us a
thing or two.’
Another god was waiting for me on the way out of Olympus.
Athena stood in the middle of the road with her arms
crossed and a look on her face that made me think uh-oh.
She’d changed out of her armour, into jeans and a white
blouse, but she didn’t look any less warlike. Her grey eyes
blazed.
‘Well, Percy,’ she said. ‘You will stay mortal.’
‘Um, yes, ma’am.’
‘I would know your reasons.’
‘I want to be a regular guy. I want to grow up. Have, you
know, a regular high-school experience.’
‘And my daughter?’
‘I couldn’t leave her,’ I admitted, my throat dry. ‘Or
Grover,’ I added quickly. ‘Or –’
‘Spare me.’ Athena stepped close to me, and I could feel
her aura of power making my skin itch. ‘I once warned you,
Percy Jackson, that to save a friend you would destroy the
1397
world. Perhaps I was mistaken. You seem to have saved both
your friends and the world. But think very carefully about
how you proceed from here. I have given you the beneﬁt of
the doubt. Don’t mess up.’
Just to prove her point, she erupted in a column of ﬂame,
charring the front of my shirt.
Annabeth was waiting for me at the elevator. ‘Why do you
smell like smoke?’
‘Long story,’ I said. Together we made our way down to
the street level. Neither of us said a word. The music was
awful – Neil Diamond or something. I should’ve made that
part of my gift from the gods: better elevator tunes.
When we got into the lobby, I found my mother and Paul
arguing with the bald security guy, who’d returned to his
post.
‘I’m telling you,’ my mom yelled, ‘we have to go up! My
son –’ Then she saw me and her eyes widened. ‘Percy!’
She hugged the breath right out of me.
‘We saw the building lit up blue,’ she said. ‘But then you
didn’t come down. You went up hours ago!’
‘She was getting a bit anxious,’ Paul said dryly.
‘I’m all right,’ I promised as my mom hugged Annabeth.
‘Everything’s okay now.’
‘Mr Bloﬁs,’ Annabeth said, ‘that was wicked sword work.’
Paul shrugged. ‘It seemed like the thing to do. But, Percy,
is this really  … I mean, this story about the six-hundredth
ﬂoor?’
‘Olympus,’ I said. ‘Yeah.’
Paul looked at the ceiling with a dreamy expression. ‘I’d
like to see that.’
‘Paul,’ my mom chided. ‘It’s not for mortals. Anyway, the
important thing is we’re safe. All of us.’
I was about to relax. Everything felt perfect. Annabeth and
I were okay. My mom and Paul had survived. Olympus was
saved.
1398
But the life of a demigod is never so easy. Just then Nico
ran in from the street, and his face told me something was
wrong.
‘It’s Rachel,’ he said. ‘I just ran into her down on Thirty-
second.’
Annabeth frowned. ‘What’s she done this time?’
‘It’s where she’s gone,’ Nico said. ‘I told her she would die
if she tried, but she insisted. She just took Blackjack and –’
‘She took my pegasus?’ I demanded.
Nico nodded. ‘She’s heading to Half-Blood Hill. She said
she had to get to camp.’
1399
22    I Am Dumped
 
Nobody steals my pegasus. Not even Rachel. I wasn’t sure if
I was more angry or amazed or worried.
‘What was she thinking?’ Annabeth said as we ran for the
river. Unfortunately, I had a pretty good idea, and it ﬁlled
me with dread.
The traﬃc was horrible. Everybody was out on the streets
gawking at the warzone damage. Police sirens wailed on
every block. There was no possibility of catching a cab, and
the pegasi had ﬂown away. I would’ve settled for some Party
Ponies, but they had disappeared along with most of the
root beer in midtown. So we ran, pushing through mobs of
dazed mortals that clogged the sidewalks.
‘She’ll never get through the defences,’ Annabeth said.
‘Peleus will eat her.’
I hadn’t considered that. The Mist wouldn’t fool Rachel like
it would most people. She’d be able to ﬁnd the camp no
problem, but I’d been hoping the magical boundaries would
just keep her out like a force ﬁeld. It hadn’t occurred to me
that Peleus might attack.
‘We’ve got to hurry.’ I glanced at Nico. ‘I don’t suppose
you could conjure up some skeleton horses.’
He wheezed as he ran. ‘So tired … couldn’t summon a dog
bone.’
Finally we scrambled over the embankment to the shore
and I let out a loud whistle. I hated doing it. Even with the
sand dollar I’d given the East River for a magic cleaning, the
water here was pretty polluted. I didn’t want to make any
sea animals sick, but they came to my call.
1400
Three wake lines appeared in the grey water, and a pod of
hippocampi broke the surface. They whinnied unhappily,
shaking the river muck from their manes. They were
beautiful creatures, with multicoloured ﬁsh tails and the
heads and forelegs of white stallions. The hippocampus in
front was much bigger than the others – a ride ﬁt for a
Cyclops.
‘Rainbow!’ I called. ‘How’s it going, buddy?’
He neighed a complaint.
‘Yeah, I’m sorry,’ I said. ‘But it’s an emergency. We need to
get to camp.’
He snorted.
‘Tyson?’ I said. ‘Tyson is ﬁne! I’m sorry he’s not here. He’s
a big general now in the Cyclops army.’
‘NEEEEIGGGGH!’
‘Yeah, I’m sure he’ll still bring you apples. Now about that
ride …’
In no time, Annabeth, Nico and I were zipping up the East
River faster than jet skis. We sped under the Throgs Neck
Bridge and headed for Long Island Sound.
It seemed like forever until we saw the beach at camp. We
thanked the hippocampi and waded ashore only to ﬁnd
Argus waiting for us. He stood in the sand with his arms
crossed, his hundred eyes glaring at us.
‘Is she here?’ I asked.
He nodded grimly.
‘Is everything okay?’ Annabeth said.
Argus shook his head.
We followed him up the trail. It was surreal being back at
camp because everything looked so peaceful – no burning
buildings, no wounded ﬁghters. The cabins were bright in
the sunshine and the ﬁelds glittered with dew. But the place
was mostly empty.
Up at the Big House, something was deﬁnitely wrong.
Green light was shooting out of all the windows, just like I’d
1401
seen in my dream about May Castellan. Mist – the magical
kind – swirled around the yard. Chiron lay on a horse-sized
stretcher by the volleyball pit, a bunch of satyrs standing
around him. Blackjack cantered nervously in the grass.
Don’t blame me, boss! he pleaded when he saw me. The
weird girl made me do it!
Rachel Elizabeth Dare stood at the bottom of the porch
steps. Her arms were raised like she was waiting for
someone inside the house to throw her a ball.
‘What’s she doing?’ Annabeth demanded. ‘How did she
get past the barriers?’
‘She ﬂew,’ one of the satyrs said, looking accusingly at
Blackjack. ‘Right past the dragon, right through the magic
boundaries.’
‘Rachel!’ I called, but the satyrs stopped me when I tried
to go any closer.
‘Percy, don’t,’ Chiron warned. He winced as he tried to
move. His left arm was in a sling, his two back legs were in
splints, and his head was wrapped in bandages. ‘You can’t
interrupt.’
‘I thought you explained things to her!’
‘I did. And I invited her here.’
I stared at him in disbelief. ‘You said you’d never let
anyone try again! You said –’
‘I know what I said, Percy. But I was wrong. Rachel had a
vision about the curse of Hades. She believes it may be
lifted now. She convinced me she deserves a chance.’
‘And if the curse isn’t lifted? If Hades hasn’t got to that
yet, she’ll go crazy!’
The Mist swirled around Rachel. She shivered like she was
going into shock.
‘Hey!’ I shouted. ‘Stop!’
I ran towards her, ignoring the satyrs. I got within three
metres and hit something like an invisible beach ball. I
bounced back and landed in the grass.
1402
Rachel opened her eyes and turned. She looked as if she
were sleepwalking – as if she could see me, but only in a
dream.
‘It’s all right.’ Her voice sounded far away. ‘This is why I’ve
come.’
‘You’ll be destroyed!’
She shook her head. ‘This is where I belong, Percy. I ﬁnally
understand why.’
It sounded too much like what May Castellan had said. I
had to stop her, but I couldn’t even get to my feet.
The house rumbled. The door ﬂew open and green light
poured out. I recognized the warm musty smell of snakes.
Mist curled into a hundred smoky serpents, slithering up
the porch columns, curling around the house. Then the
Oracle appeared in the doorway.
The withered mummy shuﬄed forward in her rainbow
dress. She looked even worse than usual, which is saying a
lot. Her hair was falling out in clumps. Her leathery skin was
cracking like the seat of a worn-out bus. Her glassy eyes
stared blankly into space, but I got the creepiest feeling she
was being drawn straight towards Rachel.
Rachel held out her arms. She didn’t look scared.
‘You’ve waited too long,’ Rachel said. ‘But I’m here now.’
The sun blazed more brightly. A man appeared above the
porch, ﬂoating in the air – a blond dude in a white toga, with
sunglasses and a cocky smile.
‘Apollo,’ I said.
He winked at me, but held up his ﬁnger to his lips. ‘Rachel
Elizabeth Dare,’ he said. ‘You have the gift of prophecy. But
it is also a curse. Are you sure you want this?’
Rachel nodded. ‘It’s my destiny.’
‘Do you accept the risks?’
‘I do.’
‘Then proceed,’ the god said.
Rachel closed her eyes. ‘I accept this role. I pledge myself
to Apollo, god of oracles. I open my eyes to the future and
1403
embrace the past. I accept the spirit of Delphi, voice of the
gods, speaker of riddles, seer of fate.’
I didn’t know where she was getting the words, but they
ﬂowed out of her as the Mist thickened. A green column of
smoke, like a huge python, uncoiled from the mummy’s
mouth and slithered down the stairs, curling aﬀectionately
around Rachel’s feet. The Oracle’s mummy crumbled, falling
away until it was nothing but a pile of dust in an old tie-dyed
dress. Mist enveloped Rachel in a column.
For a moment, I couldn’t see her at all. Then the smoke
cleared.
Rachel collapsed and curled into the foetal position.
Annabeth, Nico and I rushed forward, but Apollo said, ‘Stop!
This is the most delicate part.’
‘What’s going on?’ I demanded. ‘What do you mean?’
Apollo studied Rachel with concern. ‘Either the spirit takes
hold, or it doesn’t.’
‘And if it doesn’t?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Five syllables,’ Apollo said, counting them on his ﬁngers.
‘That would be real bad.’
Despite Apollo’s warning, I ran forward and knelt over
Rachel. The smell of the attic was gone. The Mist sank into
the ground and the green light faded. But Rachel was still
pale. She was barely breathing.
Then her eyes ﬂuttered open. She focused on me with
diﬃculty. ‘Percy.’
‘Are you okay?’
She tried to sit up. ‘Ow.’ She pressed her hands to her
temples.
‘Rachel,’ 
Nico 
said, 
‘your 
life 
aura 
almost 
faded
completely. I could see you dying.’
‘I’m all right,’ she murmured. ‘Please, help me up. The
visions – they’re a little disorienting.’
‘Are you sure you’re okay?’ I asked.
Apollo 
drifted 
down 
from 
the 
porch. 
‘Ladies 
and
gentlemen, may I introduce the new Oracle of Delphi.’
1404
‘You’re kidding,’ Annabeth said.
Rachel managed a weak smile. ‘It’s a little surprising to
me, too, but this is my fate. I saw it when I was in New York.
I know why I was born with true sight. I was meant to
become the Oracle.’
I blinked. ‘You mean you can tell the future now?’
‘Not all the time,’ she said. ‘But there are visions, images,
words in my mind. When someone asks me a question, I …
oh no –’
‘It’s starting,’ Apollo announced.
Rachel doubled over, as if someone had punched her.
Then she stood up straight and her eyes glowed serpent
green.
When she spoke, her voice sounded tripled – like three
Rachels were talking at once:
 
‘Seven half-bloods shall answer the call,
To storm or ﬁre the world must fall.
An oath to keep with a ﬁnal breath,
And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.’
 
At the last word, Rachel collapsed. Nico and I caught her
and helped her to the porch. Her skin was feverish.
‘I’m all right,’ she said, her voice returning to normal.
‘What was that?’ I asked.
She shook her head, confused. ‘What was what?’
‘I believe,’ Apollo said, ‘that we just heard the next Great
Prophecy.’
‘What does it mean?’ I demanded.
Rachel frowned. ‘I don’t even remember what I said.’
‘No,’ Apollo mused. ‘The spirit will only speak through you
occasionally. The rest of the time, our Rachel will be much
as she’s always been. There’s no point in grilling her, even if
she has just issued the next big prediction for the future of
the world.’
‘What?’ I said. ‘But –’
1405
‘Percy,’ Apollo said, ‘I wouldn’t worry too much. The last
Great Prophecy about you took almost seventy years to
complete. This one may not even happen in your lifetime.’
I thought about the lines Rachel had spoken in that creepy
voice – about storm and ﬁre and the Doors of Death.
‘Maybe,’ I said, ‘but it didn’t sound so good.’
‘No,’ said Apollo cheerfully. ‘It certainly didn’t. She’s going
to make a wonderful Oracle!’
It was hard to drop the subject, but Apollo insisted Rachel
needed to rest, and she did look pretty disoriented.
‘I’m sorry, Percy,’ she said. ‘Back on Olympus, I didn’t
explain everything to you, but the calling frightened me. I
didn’t think you’d understand.’
‘I still don’t,’ I admitted. ‘But I guess I’m happy for you.’
Rachel smiled. ‘Happy probably isn’t the right word.
Seeing the future isn’t going to be easy, but it’s my destiny.
I only hope my family …’
She didn’t ﬁnish her thought.
‘Will you still go to Clarion Academy?’ I asked.
‘I made a promise to my father. I guess I’ll try to be a
normal kid during the school year, but –’
‘But right now you need sleep,’ Apollo scolded. ‘Chiron, I
don’t think the attic is the proper place for our new Oracle,
do you?’
‘No, indeed.’ Chiron looked a lot better now that Apollo
had worked some medical magic on him. ‘Rachel may use a
guest room in the Big House for now, until we give the
matter more thought.’
‘I’m thinking a cave in the hills,’ Apollo mused. ‘With
torches and a big purple curtain over the entrance … really
mysterious. But inside, a totally decked-out pad with a game
room and one of those home-theatre systems.’
Chiron cleared his throat loudly.
‘What?’ Apollo demanded.
1406
Rachel kissed me on the cheek. ‘Goodbye, Percy,’ she
whispered. ‘And I don’t have to see the future to tell you
what to do now, do I?’
Her eyes seemed more piercing than before.
I blushed. ‘No.’
‘Good,’ she said. Then she turned and followed Apollo into
the Big House.
The rest of the day was as strange as the beginning.
Campers trickled in from New York by car, pegasus and
chariot. The wounded were cared for. The dead were given
proper funeral rites at the campﬁre.
Silena’s shroud was hot pink, but embroidered with an
electric spear. The Ares and Aphrodite cabins both claimed
her as a hero, and lit the shroud together. No one mentioned
the word spy. That secret burned to ashes as the designer
perfume smoke drifted into the sky.
Even Ethan Nakamura was given a shroud – black silk,
with a logo of swords crossed under a set of scales. As his
shroud went up in ﬂames, I hoped Ethan knew he had made
a diﬀerence in the end. He’d paid a lot more than an eye,
but the minor gods would ﬁnally get the respect they
deserved.
Dinner at the pavilion was low-key. The only highlight was
Juniper the tree nymph who screamed, ‘Grover!’ and gave
her boyfriend a ﬂying-tackle hug, making everybody cheer.
They went down to the beach to take a moonlit walk, and I
was happy for them, though the scene reminded me of
Silena and Beckendorf, which made me sad.
Mrs O’Leary romped around happily, eating everybody’s
table scraps. Nico sat at the main table with Chiron and Mr
D, and nobody seemed to think this was out of place.
Everybody was patting Nico on the back, complimenting him
on his ﬁghting. Even the Ares kids seemed to think he was
pretty cool. Hey, show up with an army of undead warriors
1407
to save the day, and suddenly you’re everybody’s best
friend.
Slowly, the dinner crowd trickled away. Some went to the
campﬁre for a singalong. Others went to bed. I sat at the
Poseidon table by myself and watched the moonlight on
Long Island Sound. I could see Grover and Juniper at the
beach, holding hands and talking. It was peaceful.
‘Hey.’ Annabeth slid next to me on the bench. ‘Happy
birthday.’
She was holding a huge misshapen cupcake with blue
icing.
I stared at her. ‘What?’
‘It’s August eighteenth,’ she said. ‘Your birthday, right?’
I was stunned. It hadn’t even occurred to me, but she was
right. I had turned sixteen this morning – the same morning
I’d made the choice to give Luke the knife. The prophecy
had come true right on schedule, and I hadn’t even thought
about the fact that it was my birthday.
‘Make a wish,’ she said.
‘Did you bake this yourself?’ I asked.
‘Tyson helped.’
‘That explains why it looks like a chocolate brick,’ I said.
‘With extra-blue cement.’
Annabeth laughed.
I thought for a second then blew out the candle.
We cut it in half and shared, eating with our ﬁngers.
Annabeth sat next to me and we watched the ocean.
Crickets and monsters were making noise in the woods, but
otherwise it was quiet.
‘You saved the world,’ she said.
‘We saved the world.’
‘And Rachel is the new Oracle, which means she won’t be
dating anybody.’
‘You don’t sound disappointed,’ I noticed.
Annabeth shrugged. ‘Oh, I don’t care.’
‘Uh-huh.’
1408
She raised an eyebrow. ‘You got something to say to me,
Seaweed Brain?’
‘You’d probably kick my butt.’
‘You know I’d kick your butt.’
I brushed the cake oﬀ my hands. ‘When I was at the River
Styx, turning invulnerable … Nico said I had to concentrate
on one thing that kept me anchored to the world, that made
me want to stay mortal.’
Annabeth kept her eyes on the horizon. ‘Yeah?’
‘Then up on Olympus,’ I said, ‘when they wanted to make
me a god and stuﬀ, I kept thinking –’
‘Oh, you so wanted to.’
‘Well, maybe a little. But I didn’t, because I thought – I
didn’t want things to stay the same for eternity, because
things could always get better. And I was thinking  …’ My
throat felt really dry.
‘Anyone in particular?’ Annabeth asked, her voice soft.
I looked over and saw that she was trying not to smile.
‘You’re laughing at me,’ I complained.
‘I am not!’
‘You are so not making this easy.’
Then she laughed for real, and she put her hands around
my neck. ‘I am never, ever going to make things easy for
you, Seaweed Brain. Get used to it.’
When she kissed me, I had the feeling my brain was
melting right through my body.
I could’ve stayed that way forever, except a voice behind
us growled, ‘Well, it’s about time!’
Suddenly the pavilion was ﬁlled with torchlight and
campers. Clarisse led the way as the eavesdroppers
charged and hoisted us both onto their shoulders.
‘Oh, come on!’ I complained. ‘Is there no privacy?’
‘The lovebirds need to cool oﬀ!’ Clarisse said with glee.
‘The canoe lake!’ Connor Stoll shouted.
With a huge cheer, they carried us down the hill, but they
kept us close enough to hold hands. Annabeth was laughing,
1409
and I couldn’t help laughing, too, even though my face was
completely red.
We held hands right up to the moment they dumped us in
the water.
Afterwards, I had the last laugh. I made an air bubble at
the bottom of the lake. Our friends kept waiting for us to
come up, but hey – when you’re the son of Poseidon, you
don’t have to hurry.
And it was pretty much the best underwater kiss of all
time.
1410
23    We Say Goodbye, Sort of
 
Camp went late that summer. It lasted two more weeks,
right up to the start of a new school year, and I have to
admit they were the best two weeks of my life.
Of course, Annabeth would kill me if I said anything
diﬀerent, but there was a lot of other great stuﬀ going on,
too. Grover had taken over the satyr seekers and was
sending them out across the world to ﬁnd unclaimed half-
bloods. So far, the gods had kept their promise. New
demigods were popping up all over the place – not just in
America, but in a lot of other countries as well.
‘We can hardly keep up,’ Grover admitted one afternoon
as we were taking a break at the canoe lake. ‘We’re going to
need a bigger travel budget, and I could use a hundred
more satyrs.’
‘Yeah, but the satyrs you have are working super hard,’ I
said. ‘I think they’re scared of you.’
Grover blushed. ‘That’s silly. I’m not scary.’
‘You’re a Lord of the Wild, dude. The chosen one of Pan. A
member of the Council of –’
‘Stop it!’ Grover protested. ‘You’re as bad as Juniper. I
think she wants me to run for president next.’
He chewed on a tin can as we stared across the pond at
the line of new cabins under construction. The U-shape
would soon be a complete rectangle, and the demigods had
really taken to the new task with gusto.
Nico had some undead builders working on the Hades
cabin. Even though he was still the only kid in it, it was
going to look pretty cool – solid obsidian walls with a skull
1411
over the door and torches that burned with green ﬁre
twenty-four hours a day. Next to that were the cabins of Iris,
Nemesis, Hecate and several others I didn’t recognize. They
kept adding new ones to the blueprints every day. It was
going so well Annabeth and Chiron were talking about
adding an entirely new wing of cabins just so they could
have enough room.
The Hermes cabin was a lot less crowded now, because
most of the unclaimed kids had received signs from their
godly parents. It happened almost every night, and every
night more demigods straggled over the property line with
the satyr guides, usually with some nasty monsters
pursuing them, but almost all of them made it through.
‘It’s going to be a lot diﬀerent next summer,’ I said.
‘Chiron’s expecting we’ll have twice as many campers.’
‘Yeah,’ Grover agreed, ‘but it’ll be the same old place.’
He sighed contentedly.
I watched as Tyson led a group of Cyclops builders. They
were hoisting huge stones in place for the Hecate cabin, and
I knew it was a delicate job. Each stone was engraved with
magical writing, and if they dropped one, it would either
explode or turn everyone within half a mile into a tree. I
ﬁgured nobody but Grover would like that.
‘I’ll be travelling a lot,’ Grover warned, ‘between
protecting nature and ﬁnding half-bloods. I may not see you
as much.’
‘Won’t change anything,’ I said. ‘You’re still my best
friend.’
He grinned. ‘Except for Annabeth.’
‘That’s diﬀerent.’
‘Yeah,’ he agreed. ‘It sure is.’
In the late afternoon, I was taking one last walk along the
beach when a familiar voice said, ‘Good day for ﬁshing.’
My dad, Poseidon, was standing knee-deep in the surf,
wearing his typical Bermuda shorts, beat-up cap and a real
1412
subtle pink-and-green tropical shirt. He had a deep-sea
ﬁshing rod in his hands, and when he cast it, the line went
way out – like halfway across Long Island Sound.
‘Hey, Dad,’ I said. ‘What brings you here?’
He winked. ‘Never really got to talk in private on Olympus.
I wanted to thank you.’
‘Thank me? You came to the rescue.’
‘Yes, and I got my palace destroyed in the process, but
you know – palaces can be rebuilt. I’ve had so many thank-
you cards from the other gods. Even Ares wrote one, though
I think Hera forced him to. It’s rather gratifying. So thank
you. I suppose even the gods can learn new tricks.’
The Sound began to boil. At the end of my dad’s line, a
huge green sea serpent erupted from the water. It thrashed
and fought, but Poseidon just sighed. Holding his ﬁshing
pole with one hand, he whipped out his knife and cut the
line. The monster sank below the surface.
‘Not eating size,’ he complained. ‘I have to release the
little ones or the game wardens will be all over me.’
‘Little ones?’
He grinned. ‘You’re doing well with those new cabins, by
the way. I suppose this means I can claim all those other
sons and daughters of mine and send you some siblings
next summer.’
‘Ha-ha.’
Poseidon reeled in his empty line.
I shifted my feet. ‘Um, you were kidding, right?’
Poseidon gave me one of his inside-joke winks, and I still
didn’t know whether he was serious or not. ‘I’ll see you
soon, Percy. And remember – know which ﬁsh are big
enough to land, eh?’
With that he dissolved in the sea breeze, leaving a ﬁshing
pole lying in the sand.
That evening was the last night of camp – the bead
ceremony. The Hephaestus cabin had designed the bead
1413
this year. It showed the Empire State Building, and etched in
tiny Greek letters, spiralling around the image, were the
names of all the heroes who had died defending Olympus.
There were too many names, but I was proud to wear the
bead. I put it on my camp necklace – four beads now. I felt
like an old-timer. I thought about the ﬁrst campﬁre I’d ever
attended, back when I was twelve, and how I’d felt so at
home. That at least hadn’t changed.
‘Never forget this summer!’ Chiron told us. He had healed
remarkably well, but he still trotted in front of the ﬁre with a
slight limp. ‘We have discovered bravery and friendship and
courage this summer. We have upheld the honour of the
camp.’
He smiled at me, and everybody cheered. As I looked at
the ﬁre, I saw a little girl in a brown dress tending the
ﬂames. She winked at me with red glowing eyes. No one
else seemed to notice her, but I realized maybe she
preferred it that way.
‘And now,’ Chiron said, ‘early to bed! Remember you must
vacate your cabins by noon tomorrow unless you’ve made
arrangements to stay the year with us. The cleaning harpies
will eat any stragglers, and I’d hate to end the summer on a
sour note!’
The next morning, Annabeth and I stood at the top of Half-
Blood Hill. We watched the buses and vans pull away, taking
most of the campers back to the real world. A few old-timers
would be staying behind, and a few of the newcomers, but I
was heading back to Goode High School for my sophomore
year – the ﬁrst time in my life I’d ever done two years at the
same school.
‘Goodbye,’ Rachel said to us as she shouldered her bag.
She looked pretty nervous, but she was keeping a promise
to her father and attending Clarion Academy in New
Hampshire. It would be next summer before we got our
Oracle back.
1414
‘You’ll do great.’ Annabeth hugged her. Funny, she
seemed to get along ﬁne with Rachel these days.
Rachel bit her lip. ‘I hope you’re right. I’m a little worried.
What if somebody asks what’s on the next maths test and I
start spouting a prosphecy in the middle of geometry class?
The Pythagorean theorem shall be problem two  … Gods,
that would be embarrassing.’
Annabeth laughed, and to my relief it made Rachel smile.
‘Well,’ she said, ‘you two be good to each other.’ Go
ﬁgure, but she looked at me like I was some kind of
troublemaker. Before I could protest, Rachel wished us well
and ran down the hill to catch her lift.
Annabeth, thank goodness, would be staying in New York.
She’d got permission from her parents to attend a boarding
school in the city so she could be close to Olympus and
oversee the rebuilding eﬀorts.
‘And close to me?’ I asked.
‘Well, someone’s got a big sense of his own importance.’
But she laced her ﬁngers through mine. I remembered what
she’d told me in New York, about building something
permanent, and I thought – just maybe – we were oﬀ to a
good start.
The guard dragon Peleus curled contentedly around the
pine tree underneath the Golden Fleece and began to snore,
blowing steam with every breath.
‘You’ve been thinking about Rachel’s prophecy?’ I asked
Annabeth.
She frowned. ‘How did you know?’
‘Because I know you.’
She bumped me with her shoulder. ‘Okay, so I have.
Seven half-bloods shall answer the call. I wonder who they’ll
be. We’re going to have so many new faces next summer.’
‘Yep,’ I agreed. ‘And all that stuﬀ about the world falling in
storm or ﬁre.’
She pursed her lips. ‘And foes at the Doors of Death. I
don’t know, Percy, but I don’t like it. I thought  … well,
1415
maybe we’d get some peace for a change.’
‘Wouldn’t be Camp Half-Blood if it was peaceful,’ I said.
‘I guess you’re right  … or maybe the prophecy won’t
happen for years.’
‘Could be a problem for another generation of demigods,’
I agreed. ‘Then we can kick back and enjoy.’
She nodded, though she still seemed uneasy. I didn’t
blame her, but it was hard to feel too upset on a nice day,
with her next to me, knowing that I wasn’t really saying
goodbye. We had lots of time.
‘Race you to the road?’ I said.
‘You are so going to lose.’ She took oﬀ down Half-Blood Hill
and I sprinted after her.
For once, I didn’t look back.
1416
1417
1418
1419
Bright and shiny and sizzling with fun
stuﬀ …
puﬃn.co.uk
 
 
WEB FUN
UNIQUE and exclusive digital content!
Podcasts, photos, Q&A, Day in the Life of, interviews and
much more, from Eoin Colfer, Cathy Cassidy, Allan Ahlberg
and Meg Rosoﬀ to Lynley Dodd!
 
WEB NEWS
The Puﬃn Blog is packed with posts and photos from
Puﬃn HQ and special guest bloggers. You can also sign up
to our monthly newsletter Puﬃn Beak Speak.
 
WEB CHAT
Discover something new EVERY month – books,
competitions and treats galore.
 
1420
WEBBED FEET
(Puﬃns have funny little feet and brightly coloured
beaks.)
 
Point your mouse our way today! 
1421
It all started with a Scarecrow.
Puﬃn is over seventy years old. Sounds ancient, doesn’t
it? But Puﬃn has never been so lively. We’re always on the
lookout for the next big idea, which is how it began all those
years ago.
Penguin Books was a big idea from the mind of a man called
Allen Lane, who in 1935 invented the quality paperback and
changed the world. And from great Penguins, great
Puﬃns grew, changing the face of children’s books
forever.
The ﬁrst four Puﬃn Picture Books were hatched in 1940 and
the ﬁrst Puﬃn story book featured a man with broomstick
arms called Worzel Gummidge. In 1967 Kaye Webb, Puﬃn
Editor, started the Puﬃn Club, promising to ‘make children
into readers’. She kept that promise and over 200,000
children became devoted Puﬃneers through their quarterly
instalments of Puﬃn Post.
Many years from now, we hope you’ll look back and
remember Puﬃn with a smile. No matter what your age
or what you’re into, there’s a Puﬃn for everyone. The
1422
possibilities are endless, but one thing is for sure: whether
it’s a picture book or a paperback, a sticker book or a
hardback, if it’s got that little Puﬃn on it – it’s bound
to be good.
www.puﬃn.co.uk
1423
PUFFIN BOOKS
Published by the Penguin Group 
Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England 
Penguin Group (USA) Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA 
Penguin Group (Canada), 90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada M4P 2Y3 (a division of Pearson Penguin Canada Inc.) 
Penguin Ireland, 25 St Stephen’s Green, Dublin 2, Ireland (a division of Penguin
Books Ltd) 
Penguin Group (Australia), 707 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3008, Australia
(a division of Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd) 
Penguin Books India Pvt Ltd, 11 Community Centre, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi
– 110 017, India 
Penguin Group (NZ), 67 Apollo Drive, Rosedale, Auckland 0632, New Zealand (a
division of Pearson New Zealand Ltd) 
Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, Block D, Rosebank Oﬃce Park, 181 Jan
Smuts Avenue, Parktown North, Gauteng 2193, South Africa
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Oﬃces: 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England
www.puﬃnbooks.com
Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief ﬁrst published in the USA by Hyperion
Books for Children, an imprint of the Disney Book Group, 2005 
Published in Great Britain by Puﬃn Books 2005 
Text copyright © Rick Riordan, 2005
Percy Jackson and the Sea of Monsters ﬁrst published in the USA by Hyperion
Books for Children, an imprint of the Disney Book Group, 2006 
Published in Great Britain by Puﬃn Books 2006 
Text copyright © Rick Riordan, 2006
Percy Jackson and the Titan’s Curse ﬁrst published in the USA by Hyperion Books
for Children, an imprint of the Disney Book Group, 2007 
Published in Great Britain by Puﬃn Books 2007 
Text copyright © Rick Riordan, 2007
Percy Jackson and the Battle of the Labyrinth ﬁrst published in the USA by
Hyperion Books for Children, an imprint of the Disney Book Group, 2008 
Published in Great Britain by Puﬃn Books 2008 
Text copyright © Rick Riordan, 2008
Percy Jackson and the Last Olympian ﬁrst published in the USA by Hyperion
Books for Children, an imprint of the Disney Book Group, 2009 
1424
Published in Great Britain by Puﬃn Books 2009 
Text copyright © Rick Riordan, 2009
Cover illustration by Owen Richardson
Design by Andrew Smith www.asmithcompany.co.uk
The moral right of the author and illustrator has been asserted
All rights reserved
ISBN: 978-0-141-35201-5
